SWMM 5.1 Update History
=======================

-------------------------
Build 5.1.015 (July 2020)
-------------------------

Engine Updates:

1. A mix of infiltration methods can now be used within a project.

2. Monthly adjustments to depression storage are now applied only to
   the pervious area of subcatchments instead of to both pervious and
   impervious areas.

3. The Status Report now includes a grouped frequency table of the
   variable routing time steps used during a simulation.

4. An error in the average summary statistics reported for projects
   with a reporting start date later than the simulation start date
   was fixed.

5. A fatal error is now issued if a storage node's area curve produces
   a negative volume when extrapolated to the node's full depth.

6. A pollutant mass balance error occurring when very shallow storage
   units lost all inflow to flooding was fixed.

7. Conduit evaporation and seepage losses are now applied directly to
   the conduit's flow rate instead of just to the downstream node's
   inflow to reduce water quality mass balance errors.

8. Spurious values appearing for Final Water Table and Upper Mositure
   Content in the Groundwater Summary Results Table for completely
   impervious subcatchments were corrected.

GUI Updates:

1. The mouse wheel can now be used to zoom in or out of the Study Area
   Map and when pressed be used to pan the map.

2. The Subcatchment Infiltration Dialog was modified to accept a choice
   of infiltration method.

3. The Group Editor dialog was modified to allow a choice of infiltration
   method and its parameters be assigned to a group of subcatchments.

4. The Control Curve assigned to an LID unit's drain layer was being
   ignored by the input file reader.

5. Some problems with the Graph Options dialog for the Statistics Report
   plots were fixed.

6. Better support for 4K ultra HD monitors was added.

7. The latter update required that the three toolbars on the
   main window be combined into one to avoid resizing issues.

------------------------
Build 5.1.014 (03/01/20)
------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  Fixed a refactoring bug that produced incorrect rainfall when the same
    time series was used by one rain gage assigned to a RDII Unit Hydrograph
    and also by another gage assigned to a subcatchment.

2.  Fixed skipping the first rain gage in a project when checking
    if two gages have the same station ID but use different data files.

3.  Fixed a program crash when running projects with LID units but no
    subcatchments.

4.  Fixed having LID underdrain pollutant loads incorrectly added to the
    mass balance totals.

5.  Fixed the program from hanging when an LID unit sent its outflow back
    onto the pervious area of its own subcatchment.

6.  Fixed a failure to re-initialize layer volumes as each LID unit is
    evaluated (which could cause incorrect results for certain
    combinations of LID units).

7.  Fixed street sweeping being ignored when the sweeping period
    began with a higher day of the year than the end of the period.

8.  Fixed incorrect adjustments being made for conduit evaporation and
    seepage losses under dynamic wave flow routing.

9.  Fixed having soil moisture deficit recovery be ignored for Green-Ampt
    exfiltration from storage units.

10. Fixed having node/link ID names be mistaken for option keywords
    in the [REPORT] section of an input file.

11. Fixed a possible program crash when using the option to report average
    values within each reporting time interval instead of point values.


------------------------
Build 5.1.013 (05/10/18)
------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  A subcatchment's depression storage depth, its pervious surface roughness
    (Mannings n) and its hydraulic conductivity can now be adjusted on a
    monthly basis by assigning monthly time patterns to these properties.
    For conductivity, a subcatchment-specific adjustment pattern will
    override any project-wide set of climate adjustment factors.

2.  LID controls can now treat a designated portion of a subcatchment’s
    pervious area runoff (previously they could only treat impervious area
    runoff).

3.  Permeable pavement LID units subjected to clogging over time can now
    have their permeability only partly restored at periodic time
    intervals

4.  The following options were added to control flow out of LID units
    through their underdrains:
    - A storage layer water depth above which a closed drain automatically
      opens.
    - A storage layer water depth below which an open drain automatically
      closes.
    - A control curve that specifies how the nominal drain flow rate is
      adjusted as a function of the head seen by the drain.

5.  Pollutant removal percentages can now be assigned to LID processes that
    have underdrains. The removals apply to flow leaving the unit through the
    drain and not to any surface overflow from the unit.

6.  The Subcatchment Runoff Summary Report now includes both pervious and
    impervious total runoff volumes (prior to any LID treatment) for each
    subcatchment.

7.  A choice of method used to handle surcharging has been added to the list
    of Dynamic Wave options. The EXTRAN method continues to use the traditional
    Surcharge Algorithm to update the head at surcharged nodes. The new SLOT
    option attaches a Preissmann Slot to closed conduits flowing more than 98.5%
    full that eliminates the need to switch to the Surcharge Algorithm for
    surcharged nodes.

8.  A closed vessel can now be modeled as a storage unit node that is allowed
    to pressurize up to a designated Surcharge Depth value. If this depth is 0
    then the unit is modeled as before as an open vessel.

9.  A weir's discharge coefficient can now be allowed to vary with head across
    the weir by assigning it a Weir Curve (see Weir Properties). Weir curves
    tabulate coefficient values at specific head levels.

10. When the upstream offset of a regulator link is below the invert of its
    downstream node it is now automatically raised only for Dynamic Wave flow
    routing with a warning message issued. For other flow routing choices only
    the warning message is issued and no automatic offset adjustment is made.

11. Users can now choose to set a periodic time step for control rule evaluation.
    If this step is 0 then rules are tested as before at every routing time step.

12. The option was added to have time series results for a project's nodes and
    links be reported as average values computed over a reporting time step
    instead of being interpolated point values at the end of the reporting time
    step.

13. The following bugs were fixed:
    -  Unused rain gages are no longer examined when adjusting the wet runoff
       time step.
    -  The surface inflow rate to a permeable pavement LID unit is not allowed
       to exceed the pavement’s permeability.
    -  The Minimum Nodal Surface Area dynamic wave routing option was being used
       as surface area always available at a node instead of an amount available
       only when the surface area of the node's connecting links fell below it.
    -  The top width of a full closed rectangular cross section shape is now set
       to 0 since it can no longer supply any surface area.
    -  The ‘C’ parameter value for a Mitered Corrugated Metal Arch culvert was
       corrected.
    -  An incorrect reporting of flow continuity error for systems with backflow
       through outfall nodes was fixed.

GUI Updates

1.  Various property editors and dialog forms were updated to accomodate the newly
    added engine features (monthly time patterns for subcatchment properties, LID
    underdrain parameters, LID pollutant removal, choice of surcharge method,
    storage unit surcharge depth, weir coefficient curve, control rule time step,
    and reporting of average values).

2.  A bug that failed to record the choice of number of barrels for rectangular
    conduits in the Cross-Section Editor form was fixed.

3.  A bug in the GetLinkOutVal function of the Uoutput.pas unit was fixed.


------------------------
Build 5.1.012 (03/14/17)
------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  The direct.h header is now only #included in the swmm5.c file when
    compiled for Windows. (swmm5.c)

2.  Engine Update #7 in Build 5.1.011 (internally aligning the wet time
    step with the reporting time step) was redacted since it caused
    problems for certain combinations of time steps. (runoff.c)

3.  A subcatchment's bottom elevation is now used instead its parent
    aquifer's value when saving a water table value to the binary results
    file. (subcatch.c)

4.  A bug that failed to limit surface inflitration into a saturated rain
    garden LID unit was fixed. (lidproc.c)

5.  Calculation of the maximum limit on LID drain flows was modified to
    produce smoother results at low depths above the drain offset.
    (lidproc.c)

6.  A variable used for reporting detailed LID results is now properly
    initialized. (lid.c & lid.h)

7.  The occasional writing of duplicate lines to the detailed LID results
    file was fixed. (lidproc.c)

8.  The conversion from conduit seepage rate per unit area to rate per unit
    of length was changed to use top width instead of wetted perimeter since
    only vertical seepage is assumed to occur. (link.c)

9.  The coefficient of the evaporation/seepage term in the dynamic wave
    equation for updating conduit flow was corrected (from 1.5 to 2.5).
    (dwflow.c)

10. The Engels flow equation for side flow weirs was corrected (the original
    equation used in SWMM 3 & 4 was incorrect). (link.c)

11. Crest length reductions for end contractions are no longer used for
    trapezoidal weirs. (link.c)

12. The Slope Correction Factor for culverts with mitered inlets was corrected.
    (culvert.c)

13. An entry in the table of gravel roadway weir coefficients was corrected.
    (roadway.c)

14. The user supplied minimum slope option is now initialized to 0.0
    (meaning none is provided). (project.c)

15. NO/YES are no longer accepted as attributes for the NORMAL_FLOW_LIMITED
    dynamic wave simulation option (only SLOPE/FROUDE/BOTH are valid).
    (project.c)

16. Changes were made so that the Routing Events and Skip Steady Flow
    options work correctly together. (routing.c & globals.h)

17. Steady state periods with no flow routing no longer contribute to the
    routing time step statistics. (stats.c and report.c)

18. When compiling statistics on the frequency of full conduit flow the
    number of barrels is now accounted for. (stats.c)

19. Under kinematic wave or steady flow routing, the water level in
    storage nodes that have no outflow links is now updated correctly
    over time. (flowrout.c)

20. The formula for the depth at maximum width for the Modified Basket Handle
    cross section was corrected. (xsect.c)


GUI Updates:

1.  Profile plots now correctly update the main and axis title text when
    changed via the Profile Plot Options dialog. Also the downstream
    offset height of non-conduit links is set to 0 on the plot.

2.  The LID Control Editor now sets the Storage Layer Thickness to 0 when
    a Rain Garden is selected as the type of LID being edited.

3.  An OnChange event handler was added to each of the LID Control Editor's
    data fields to record when a value is changed.

------------------------
Build 5.1.011 (08/22/16)
------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  Detailed flow routing can now be restricted to a set of pre-defined
    event periods. The event periods are listed in an [EVENTS] section
    of the SWMM input file, where each line contains a start date,
    start time, end date and end time for each event.

2.  New functions, swmm_getError() and swmm_getWarnings(), were added to
    the API used for interfacing SWMM with other applications (see the
    updated Interfacing Guide for details).

3.  The error codes returned by the API functions (swmm_open, swmm_start,
    swmm_step, etc.) were corrected.

4.  The new format for precipitation amounts in rainfall files downloaded
    from the NCDC's Climate Data Online service are now recognized.

5.  Monthly adjustments for hydraulic conductivity are now also
    applied to the internal Green-Ampt "Lu" parameter which varies with
    the square root of conductivity.

6.  A check was added to insure that subcatchment imperviousness does
    not exceed 100 percent.

7.  Runoff time steps are now adjusted to stay aligned with the Report
    time step (making model validation easier).

8.  A time step correction was made when computing the outflow volume
    produced by an outfall that sends its outflow back onto a designated
    subcatchment.

9.  The LID routines were modified so that native soil infiltration is
    satisfied first when it occurs along with underdrain flow, instead
    of the other way around.

10. The allowable offset height for an LID underdrain is no longer
    limited to the top of the storage layer thus allowing upturned
    drains to be modelled.

11. The detailed LID report file now lists results by both date/time
    and elapsed hours and reports water level instead of moisture
    content for permeable pavement.

12. If the offset of the opening of a regulator link is below its
    downstream node invert it is now raised to the invert level
    and a warning message is still issued.

13. A weir with an open rectangular shape and non-zero slope parameter
    will no longer generate an input error message - the slope value is
    now ignored.

14. An illegal array index bug that could occur when checking the pump
    curve type for an Ideal Pump in dynamic wave flow routing was fixed.

15. A redundant unit conversion of max. reported depth from the Node
    Depth Summary table was removed.

16. Node surcharging is now only reported for dynamic wave flow routing
    and storage nodes are never classified as surcharged.

17. A failure to convert a storage unit's surface area curve from metric
    to internal units when computing bottom exfiltration was fixed.

18. A bug that caused a link's TIMEOPEN variable (used in control rule
    conditions) to be re-set to 0 when its setting changed from one
    partly opened state to another was fixed.

19. The Status Report no longer lists control actions taken by modulated
    controls since they occur continuously over time and can produce an
    enormous number of actions.

20. A failure to convert a Roadway Weir's road width that was in metric
    units was fixed.

21. A bug that caused the saved link settings read from a hot start
    file to be incorrect in a model containing pollutants was fixed.

22. Rule premises can now include SIMULATION DAYOFYEAR as a condition,
    where day of year is either in month/day format or a number between
    1 and 365.

23. A refactoring bug that affected water quality mass balance results
    for Steady Flow routing was fixed.

24. The function that decodes the fractional part of a date/time value
    into hours:minutes:seconds was modified so that rounding doesn't
    cause the time to exceed 24 hours.

25. Microsoft exception handling statements are now only enabled when
    the engine is compiled with the Microsoft C compiler.

GUI Updates:

1.  A new sub-category of simulation options named Events was added along
    with an Event Editor dialog to allow users to restrict detailed flow
    routing calculations to specific periods of time. See the Help file
    topic under Reference | Special Dialog Forms | Events Editor.

2.  When a Rain Garden is selected in the LID Control Editor, the Storage
    layer tab now appears so that a bottom Seepage Rate can be specified.
    This fixes the problem of having no inflitration out of a Rain Garden.

3.  After a simulation has been completed the Run Status dialog box now
    indicates if any warning messages have been issued.

4.  A previously uninitialized variable (elapsed simulation time) passed
    between the GUI and the engine is now assigned an initial value.

5.  The ground surface line on a Profile Plot can now be made visible or
    not via the Profile Plot Options dialog, with the default being visible.

6.  An option to use thick lines to outline conduits and the ground surface
    in Profile Plots was added.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.010 (08/05/15)
-------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  A modified version of Green-Ampt infiltration (MODIFIED GREEN AMPT) was
    added that no longer redistributes upper zone moisture deficit during
    low rainfall events. The original authors of SWMM's Green-Ampt model
    have endorsed this modified version. It will produce more infiltration
    for storm events that begin with low rainfall intensities, such as the
    SCS design storm distributions.

2.  A new type of weir, a ROADWAY weir, has been added. It models roadway
    overtopping using the FHWA HDS-5 method and would typically be used in
    parallel with a culvert conduit.

3.  Rule premises can now test whether a link has been open (or closed) for
    a specific period of time. See the Help file for more details.

4.  Unsaturated hydraulic conductivity ("K") was added to the list of
    variables that can be used in a user-supplied groundwater flow equation.

5.  A bug introduced in update 2 of release 5.1.008 that failed to include
    infiltration from LID units into the groundwater routine was fixed.

6.  A bug that failed to properly initialize the flag indicating that one or
    more LID controls was initially wet was fixed.

7.  Duplicate printing of the first line of an LID detailed report file was
    corrected.

8.  The Hargreaves evaporation forumla was modified to use a 7-day running
    average of daily temperatures, instead of just single day values, as
    recommended by the formula's authors.

9.  Daily potential evapotranspiration (PET) was added as a system output
    variable.

10. The qualrout.c module was refactored to make it more compact and easier
    to follow.

11. Storage seepage and evaporation losses are now based on the storage volume
    at the end, not the start, of the prior time step.

12. The command line used to build the engine included in the "makefile"
    for the GNU C/C++ compiler was corrected to include the OpenMP libraries.

GUI Updates:

1.  Potential evapotranspiration (PET) was added as new system-wide variable
    whose time series can be viewed with a graph or table.

2.  A bug in the Number of Threads dropdown list on the Dynamic Wave Options
    dialog was fixed.

3.  Additional bugs in the Cross Section Editor remaining from changes made
    in release 5.1.008 were fixed.

4.  Changes were made to accommodate the new Modified Green-Ampt infiltration
    option and the new Roadway weir option.

5.  The automatic scaling of plots with all y-values the same was improved.

6.  The automatic scaling of profile plots was improved and the ground surface
    line was removed to improve clarity.

7.  The function that automatically converts all link depth offsets to
    elevation offsets now uses the node invert elevation value rather
    than *' for a zero offset.

8.  A bug in using the Macro List on the Add-In Tools Properties form to
    insert a selection into the Working Directory edit box was fixed.


--------------------------
Build 5.1.009 (04/30/2015)
--------------------------

General:

1.  A missing DLL file used to parallelize SWMM's flow routing
    routine was added to the installation package.

Engine Updates:

1.  A re-factoring bug that prevented running simulations longer
    than 68 years was fixed.

2.  An input parsing error that prevented the program from
    recognizing a comparison between two variables in a
    control rule premise was fixed.

3.  A new warning message was added for when a control rule
    premise compares two different types of variables.

4.  When implementing 5.1.008 update 12, the runon to a
    subcatchment fully occupied by LIDs was not being included
    in the subcatchment's Summary Report.

5.  A bug was fixed that allowed LID units to return outflow to
    a subcatchment's pervious area even though LIDs occupied the
    entire subcatchment.

6.  For quality routing the definition of a dry conduit/storage
    node was changed to <= 1 mm of depth to avoid concentrations
    from blowing up due to evaporation losses.

7.  The units label for Total Inflow Volume in the Node Inflow
    Summary table of a saved report file was corrected.

GUI Updates:

1.  A bug introduced as a result of 5.1.008 GUI Update 11 that
    prevented the name of a conduit's Transect or Shape Curve
    from appearing in the Cross Section Editor was fixed.

2.  A nicer default axis scaling routine is now used for time
    series and scatter plots.

3.  The user-supplied custom scaling for the vertical axis of a
    profile plot is now recognized.



--------------------------
Build 5.1.008 (04/02/2015)
--------------------------

Engine Updates:

New Features:
=============

1.  Monthly adjustments for hydraulic conductivity used for
    rainfall infiltration and for exfiltration from storage
    nodes and conduits was added.

2.  LID drains can now send their outflow to a different node
    or subcatchment than the parent subcatchment in which they
    were placed.

3.  Conveyance system Outfall nodes now have the option to
    send their outflow onto a subcatchment, to simulate
    irrigation or complex LID treatment options.

4.  A new LID practice, Rooftop Disconnection, has been added.
    It allows one to explicitly model roof runoff with an
    optional limit on the flow capacity of their downspouts.
    Disconnection is specified by setting the Return To Pervious
    Area field in the [LID_USAGE] section to 1.

5.  An optional soil layer has been added to Permeable Pavement
    LIDs so that a sand filter or bedding layer beneath the
    pavement can be modeled.

6.  Several new built-in variable names can now be used in
    custom groundwater flow equations for porosity, unsaturated
    hydraulic conductivity, infiltration rate, and percolation
    rate. See the Help file for more details.

7.  A Groundwater Summary table has been added that reports
    several groundwater statistics for each subcatchment.

8.  A new option, the Minimum Variable Time Step, was added that
    limits the smallest time step that can be computed under
    variable time stepping for dynamic wave flow routing. In
    previous releases it was fixed at 0.5 seconds which remains
    the default. The smallest value it can now have is 0.001 sec.

9.  The dynamic wave routing procedure was parallelized to take
    advantage of multiple processors, making it run several times
    faster. A new option, THREADS, sets the number of parallel
    threads to use, where the default is 1.

10. A new column was added to the Node Depth Summary report table
    that shows the maximum depth recorded at the Reporting Time Step
    so it can be compared to the maximum depth attained over all
    routing time steps also shown in the table.

11. Control rule premises can now contain conditions that compare
    the values of a node or link variable at two different locations
    (e.g. IF NODE 123 HEAD > NODE 456 HEAD) and node volume was
    added as a condition clause variable.

Improvements:
=============

12. When a subcatchment with LID controls receives runon from another
    source (e.g., a subcatchment, LID drain or outfall node) the
    runon is now distributed only across the non-LID area of the sub-
    catchment instead of the full area. If a single LID takes up the
    full subcatchment area then the runon is directed onto the LID.

13. Storage node HRT was added to the state variables saved in the
    Hot Start file.

14. The threshold value for reporting a non-zero runoff result
    was changed from 0.001 cfs to 0.001 inches/hr.

15. The calculation of overall flow routing mass balance was
    modified to account for cases where some flow streams, like
    total external inflow, are negative.

16. The "Surface Runoff" label in the Runoff Continuity Report was
    replaced with "Total Runoff" since the value reported consists
    of both surface runoff and LID drain flow.

17. The "Internal Outflow" label in the Flow Routing Continuity
    Report was replaced with "Flooding Losses" to improve clarity.

18. The pollutant washoff routines were moved to a new code module
    (surfqual.c) and revised to account for the reduction in
    pollutant load that results from runoff flow reduction by LID
    units.

19. Initial flows for Steady Flow routing are now ignored since they
    are not used in the routing calculation and the initial volume
    associated with them contributed to system mass balance error.

20. The various types of lateral inflows to conveyance system nodes
    are now evaluated at the date/time for the start of the routing
    time step instead of at the end of the time step.

21. The final runoff and routing time steps are adjusted to insure
    that the simulation's total duration is not exceeded.

22. When evaluating user-supplied math expressions, any NaN (Not a
    Number) result (caused by an underflow, overflow or divide by zero)
    is set to 0 so that the NaN doesn't propagate through subsequent
    calculations.

Bug Fixes:
==========

23. The evaporation rates read from a time series would only change
    when a new day was reached (even though values at more frequent
    intervals were present) and could cause a run to stop pre-
    maturely in some rare cases.

24. The runoff read from a Hot Start file should have been assigned
    to a subcatchment's newRunoff property, not to oldRunoff.

25. An indexing bug that caused Hot Start files with snowmelt
    parameters to be read incorrectly was fixed.

26. The setting for a non-conduit link read from a Hot Start file
    was not being used to initialize the link.

27. A bug in adjusting snowmelt for snow covered area derived from
    an areal depletion curve was fixed.

28. Snowmelt should not have been included in the total
    precipitation reported for a subcatchment since the snowfall
    which produced it was already accounted for.

29. When computing a flow rate through the Drainage Mat of a Green
    Roof LID unit, the mat's void ratio was being applied to the
    water depth instead of to the mat's area.

30. The state of LID controls was not being considered when
    choosing to use the wet or dry runoff time step which sometimes
    lead to excessive LID continuity errors.

31. A re-factoring bug that left reporting time in minutes instead
    of hours in the detailed LID results file was fixed and results
    are now written to the file at each runoff time step where the
    state of the LID unit changes.

32. Failure to initialize groundwater evaporation loss to 0 was
    causing problems with the reported groundwater mass balance
    for subcatchments that had no pervious area.

33. Excessive continuity errors for systems having conduits with
    large seepage rates was fixed.

34. Pollutant loss through seepage in conduits and storage nodes was
    not being included in the mass balance calculations.

35. Concentrations in conduits and storage nodes were not being
    increased to account for loss of water volume when evaporation
    was occurring.

36. Premature exiting of the routine that checks for capacity limited
    links whenever a non-conduit link was encountered was fixed.

37. A bug in identifying the percent of time that a conduit has either
    end full was fixed.

38. A re-factoring bug that prevented surcharged weirs (see Update 5
    for 5.1.007) from passing any flow was fixed.

39. A bug in evaluating recursive calls to nodal water quality treatment
    functions was fixed.


GUI Updates:

1.  The missing July - December column labels were restored on both
    the evaporation and wind speed tables in the Climatology Editor.

2.  The label "Surface Water Height (Hsw)" in the Groundwater Flow
    Editor was changed to "Surface Water Depth" to make clear that
    it is the depth of water at the receiving node and not the height
    of water above the aquifer bottom (or Hsw as shown in the dialog's
    diagram).

3.  The label "Channel Bottom Height (Hcb)" also in the Groundwater
    Flow Editor was changed to "Threshold Water Table Elev." to make
    clear that it is an elevation and not a height above the aquifer
    bottom (as Hcb is in the dialog's diagram).

4.  A Groundwater Summary table was added to the form that displays
    summary results tables.

5.  Groundwater upper zone soil moisture and node lateral inflow are
    now included in the abridged Hot Start file that the GUI can
    produce (using the File | Export | Hot Start File command).

6.  The column labels in the various sections of the SWMM input file
    generated by the GUI were modified to better match the labels used
    to describe the input file format in Appendix D of the Users Manual.

7.  A "Route To" field was added to the Outfall Node property editor to
    accommodate the new option of allowing outfall nodes to discharge
    onto a subcatchment.

8.  The Dynamic Wave page of the Simulation Options dialog was modified
    to include the new Minimum Routing Time Step option and the new
    Number of Threads option.

9.  The LID Control Editor was updated to include the new Rooftop
    Disconnection LID practice and the option to add a soil layer
    to the Permeable Pavement practice.

10. A Drain Outlet field was added to the LID Usage Editor.

11. The conduit Cross Section Editor dialog was enhanced to display
    a selectable list of standard size codes and their dimensions for
    elliptical and arch pipes.

12. Custom changes made to the Map's Legends are now saved with the
    rest of a  project's settings in its .ini file.

13. Word wrapping was added to the Title/Notes display in the
    Project Browser to make the contents easier to read.

14. Modal dialog message windows now appear centered over the form that
    generates them instead of in the middle of the full display screen.

15. The style of all dropdown list boxes was changed to make them more
    visually appealing.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.007 (9/15/2014)
-------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.   A new feature that provides monthly adjustments for
     temperature, evaporation rate, and rainfall was added.

2.   Support for reading the new GHCN-Daily climate data
     files available from NCDC's Climate Data Online service
     was added.

3.   In addition to lateral groundwater flow, a custom
     equation can now also be used for seepage flow to
     a deeper groundwater aquifer.

4.   The [GW_FLOW] section of the project file was renamed
     to [GWF] and its format was changed to accommodate
     both lateral and deep groundwater flow equations.

5.   A new Weir parameter was added that specifies if the
     weir can surcharge using an orifice equation or not.
     Surcharging was the only option in SWMM 5.0 but was
     switched to no surcharing in earlier 5.1 releases.
     This new parameter accommodates both closed top weirs
     that can surcharge and open channel weirs that cannot.

6.   The formula used to recover infiltration capacity during
     dry periods for the Modified Horton method was revised.

7.   The initial cumulative infiltration into the upper soil
     zone for Green-Ampt infiltration had been incorrectly
     set to the maximum value instead of zero.

8.   All of the Green-Ampt infiltration functions were
     re-factored to make the code easier to follow.

9.   The calculation of infiltration out of the bottom of a
     Bio-Retention Cell or Permeable Pavement LID unit with a
     zero-depth storage layer was corrected.

10.  Most of the LID simulation routines were modified to
     provide more accurate results under flooded conditions.

11.  Results written to the detailed LID results report now
     always correspond to a full reporting time step.

12.  The name of the variable used to represent the height of
     the receiving channel bottom in a user-defined groundwater
     flow equation was corrected to match the name displayed
     in the GUI's Groundwater Editor dialog (Hcb).

13.  A problem with the program crashing when a climate file
     was used to provide evaporation rates for open channels
     and storage nodes when runoff was not computed (as when
     there were no subcatchments in the project) was fixed.

14.  Flow and pollutant routing mass balance accounting was
     modified to correctly handle negative external inflows.

15.  The procedure for computing the area available for seepage
     out of a storage node that has a tabular storage curve was
     corrected.

16.  Seepage from storage units can now be modeled using Green-
     Ampt infiltration, which makes the seepage rate a function
     of storage level. The constant seepage rate option can
     still be used by setting the G-A initial moisture deficit
     to 0.

17.  The function that finds depth as a function of volume from
     a storage curve was corrected for the case where the depth
     falls within a portion of the curve where area is constant
     with depth (i.e., vertical side walls).

GUI Updates:

1.   The Object Toolbar was restored.

2.   A new page was added to the Climatology Editor to edit
     values for monthly adjustments for temperature, evaporation,
     and rainfall.

3.   A field for the new weir surcharge option was added to the
     Weir Property editor.

4.   A problem with the current project being closed without
     asking if it should be saved first whenever a new style
     theme was selected from the Program Preferences dialog
     has been fixed.

5.   The default seepage rate from an LID storage layer was changed.

6.   The Infiltration Editor was restored for editing Green-Ampt
     parameters for storage unit seepage loss.

7.   The Groundwater Flow Equation Editor was extended to accept
     equations for deep groundwater flow.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.006 (5/19/2014)
-------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.   The updating of the next time that detailed LID results
     should be written to file during a simulation was modified
     to avoid an off-by-one error.

2.   The number of decimal places for hourly evaporation written
     to a detailed LID report was increased.

3.   The amount of soil water available for evaporation in
     LID units with soil layers wasn't being limited by the
     water remaining below the wilting point.

4.   The equation that computes the rate of water infiltrating
     into permeable pavement LIDs had a misplaced parenthesis.

5.   There was a units conversion error in computing the
     contribution of a pollutant in direct precipitation
     to the water quality on a subcatchment.

GUI Updates:

1.   As a result of the switch to Delphi XE2 some components on
     the Options and Climatology dialogs were not recording that
     project data had changed after edits were made.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.005 (4/23/2014)
-------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  A problem with reading hydraulic results from a hot start
    file was fixed.

GUI Updates:

1.  The appearance of the Open File Dialog with preview panel
    was improved.

2.  In the property Editor for storage nodes, the Ponded Area
    property was made read-only since storage nodes are not
    allowed to pond water.

3.  Some issues with pop-up topic windows in the Help file
    being obscured by the main Help window were fixed.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.004 (4/14/2014)
-------------------------

Engine Updates:

1.  Support for the Ignore RDII analysis option was added to
    the engine.

GUI Updates:

1.  A refactoring bug that ignored any changes to numerical
    precision made in the Program Preferences dialog was fixed.

2.  Another refactoring bug from 5.1.003 that caused projects
    with groundwater aquifers not to run was fixed.


------------------------
Build 5.1.003 (4/8/2014)
------------------------
Engine Updates:

1.  A new property, the Upper Zone Evap. Pattern, was added to
    the Aquifer object. It allows one to adjust the aquifer's
    upper zone evaporation fraction by month of the year.

2.  A bug in writing/reading RDII flows to the new binary RDII
    file was fixed.

GUI Updates:

1.  A refactoring bug that prevented SWMM from working
    correctly for users with non-US Windows regional settings
    was fixed.

2.  A refactoring bug the prevented the Group Delete feature from
    working was fixed.

4.  Issues with stay-on-top forms obscuring modal dialog forms,
    with the Browser panel disappearing if its width was made too
    small and with not being able to browse the Help system when a
    modal form had focus were fixed (these unforseen issues were
    caused by the switch to Delphi XE2 from Delphi 7).

5.  The Aquifer Editor form was updated to accept the new upper
    evaporation pattern property.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.002 (3/31/2014)
-------------------------
Engine Updates:

1.  A bug that prevented hotstart files with the latest format
    from being read was fixed.

2.  Only non-ponded surface area is saved for use in the dynamic
    wave surcharge algorithm (when water depth is close to the
    node's crown elevation).

GUI Updates:

1.  Creation of auxilary forms on startup was moved from the
    main form's OnActivate event to its OnCreate event, while
    creation of the map form was moved tothe OnShow event.

2.  The routines for saving and reading the main form's position
    and size in the swmm5 .ini file were modified.

3.  A memory leak related to copying cells from the grid editor
    used in various dialogs was fixed.


-------------------------
Build 5.1.001 (3/24/2014)
-------------------------
Engine Updates

New Features:
=============
1.  SWMM can now read the new file format for precipitation
    data retrieved online from NOAA-NCDC.

2.  A new choice of infiltration method, the Modified Horton
    method, has been added. This method uses the cumulative
    infiltration in excess of the minimum rate as its state
    variable (instead of time along the Horton curve),
    providing a more accurate infiltration estimate when
    low rainfall intensities occur.

3.  RDII interface files created internally by SWMM are now
    saved in a binary format to reduce storage space. The ASCII
    text format for these files is still supported for users
    that find it desireable to create the files outside of SWMM.

4.  Two new categories of LID controls, one for Green Roofs and
    another for Rain Gardens, have been added so they no longer
    have to be configured from the Bio-Retention Cell control
    (although that option still remains). The Green Roof uses
    a new Drainage Mat layer to store and convey the water that
    percolates through the soil layer.

5.  Users can now add their own groundwater outflow equation to
    a subcatchment, to be used in place of or in addition to the
    standard equation. Similar to treatment functions, the equation
    can be any mathematical expression that uses the same ground-
    water variables that appear in the standard equation.

6.  Evaporation of water from open channels has been added.

7.  A new conduit property named Seepage Rate (in/hr or mm/hr)
    has been added to model uniform seepage along the bottom
    and sloped sides of a conduit.

8.  Infiltration from storage units is now referred to as
    seepage, to be consistent with seepage from conduits. The
    only required parameter is a seepage rate (in/hr or mm/hr).
    Previous data files that supply a set of Green-Ampt
    infiltration parameters will still be recognized.

9.  Separate accounting and reporting of evaporation and
    seepage losses in storage units is now made.

10. Open rectangular channels now have a new parameter that
    specifies if one or both side wall surfaces should be
    ignored when computing a hydraulic radius (to provide
    improved support for quasi-2D modeling of wide channels
    and overland flooding).

11. New Dynamic Wave Analysis options have been added for
    the maximum number of iterations and head tolerance used
    at each time step. The percentage of time steps where
    convergence is not achieved is also now reported.

12. Users can now set the flow tolerances that determine if
    flow routing calculations can be skipped because steady
    state conditions hold.

13. Control rules can now use a conduit's OPEN/CLOSED status
    in both premise conditions and action clauses.

14. The meaning of the link view variable "Capacity" has been
    changed. For conduits it is now the fraction of the full
    cross section area filled by the flow, while it is the
    control setting for all other types of links (the meaning
    of the control setting varies by link type -- see the Help
    file or the Users Manual).

15. The link Froude number view variable has been replaced with
    the link's flow volume, the subcatchment Losses variable has
    been replaced by two new variables - Evaporation and
    Infiltration, and upper groundwater zone Soil Moisture has
    been added as a new view variable.

16. The Node Inflows Summary table of the Status Report now
    includes a new column that lists the mass balance error
    in volume units for each node.

17. A new summary table, Link Pollutant Load, has been added
    that displays the total mass load of each pollutant that
    flows through each link.

Improvements:
=============
18. Using a Drain Delay time of 0 for Rain Barrel LIDs now means
    that the barrel is allowed to drain continuously, even as it
    is filling during wet weather periods.

19. The requirement that an impervious surface must be dry
    (have no more than 0.05 inches of standing water) before
    it could be subjected to street sweeping has been dropped.

20. After runoff ceases and a land surface goes dry due to
    evaporation, any remaining mass of pollutant originating
    from direct deposition or upstream runon is assumed to be
    unavailabe for future washoff (it shows up as Remaining
    Buildup in the mass balance report).

21. The way that wet weather washoff inflow loads are
    interpolated across a flow routing time step was modified
    to produce a better match between the reported total runoff
    load and total quality routing inflow load.

22. The method used to select a time step for processing RDII
    unit hydrographs was modified to consider the case where
    K (the ratio of rising limb to falling limb duration) is
    below 1.0.

23. When the moisture content of the upper groundwater zone
    reaches saturation, the depth of the lower saturated zone
    is now set equal to the full aquifer depth (minus a small
    tolerance).

24. Conduits with negative slopes whose absolute value is
    below the Minimum Slope option will have their slope
    changed to the positive minimum value, thus allowing
    them to be analyzed using the Steady Flow and Kinematic
    Wave routing options.

25. The Avg. Froude Number and Avg. Flow Change columns in the
    Flow Classification Summary table have been replaced with the
    fraction of time steps that flow is limited to normal flow
    and the fraction of time steps that flow is inlet controlled
    (for culverts).

26. An error condition now occurs if a pump's startup depth
    is less than its shutoff depth.

27. Only the upstream node for orifice and weir links is now
    checked to see if its maximum depth needs to be increased
    to meet the top elevation of the orifice or weir opening.

28. Weirs are no longer allowed to operate as an orifice when
    they surcharge. Instead any excess flow will flood the
    upstream node.

29. A warning message is now written to the Status Report if
    the crest elevation of a regulator link is below its
    downstream node's invert.

30. When a reporting time falls in between a computational time
    step during which a pump's on/off status changes, the reported
    pump flow is the value at either the start or end of the time
    step depending on which is closer to the reporting time (i.e.,
    no interpolation is used).

31. Control rule conditions can now accept elapsed time or
    time of day values as decimal hours in addition to hours:
    minutes:seconds.

32. The test for a control rule condition equaling a specified
    elapsed time or time of day was modified to more accurately
    capture its occurrence.

33. If the Water Quality analysis option is disabled then the
    binary results file no longer contains any pollutant values
    (of 0) for all time periods.

34. Hot Start files now contain the complete state of the watershed
    and conveyance system, so that future simulations can start up
    correctly where they left off.

35. The following changes to error reporting were made:
    - Error 319 was re-numbered to 320 and a new Error 319
      was added for a rainfall data file with unknown format.
    - Format errors in external time series files are now
      listed as Error 363 (invalid data) instead of Error
      173 (time series out of sequence).

36. Warning messages written to the Status Report are now
    single spaced instead of double spaced. See report.c.

37. The Link Summary table in the Status Report now lists conduits
    with negative slopes in their original orientation instead of
    in their reversed state.

Bug Fixes:
==========
38. A refactoring bug from 5.0.022 that prevented snowmelt
    from infiltrating has been fixed.

39. Snowmelt rate during rainfall conditions and the updating
    of the antecedent temperature index were were not being
    converted from the six hour time interval used in Anderson's
    original NWS snowmelt model to the hourly basis used in SWMM.

40. A refactoring bug that failed to set the maximum number of
    characters high enough for a line read from a user-prepared
    rainfall data file has been fixed.

41. The optional Maximum Volume parameter for Horton
    infiltration was not allowing any recovery of infiltration
    capacity between storm events.

42. Evaporation from the lower groundwater zone was being
    computed from the rate remaining after surface and upper
    zone evaporation was considered instead of from the
    unadjusted rate (with a reduction afterwards if it exceeds
    the remaining available rate).

43. An error in applying the Vegetation Volume Fraction parameter
    to swales was corrected.

44. The time from the last rainfall used to determine when a
    Rain Barrel should begin to empty wasn't being computed
    correctly.

45. An erroneous error message for Rain Barrel LIDs with a
    zero Void Ratio has been fixed (the Void Ratio parameter
    should be ignored for Rain Barrels).

46. The display of extraneous infiltration results in detailed
    reports for Rain Barrel LIDs has been eliminated.

47. The check on no street sweeping for a subcatchment during
    wet periods was checking rainfall over the entire study
    area instead of just the subcatchment.

48. An erroneous warning message regarding negative offsets for
    pumps when elevation offsets are used has been eliminated.

49. A possible divide by zero error for trapezoidal channels
    with zero bottom width has been eliminated.

50. A program crash that occurred when the Ignore Routing
    option was selected and results were to be saved to a
    Routing Interface file has been fixed.

51. Projects that had no subcatchments or had the Ignore
    Runoff switch selected were not able to evaporate water
    from storage units.

52. Weekday and weekend hourly time patterns for Dry Weather
    inflows are now correctly applied in a mutually exclusive
    manner.

53. The Node Flooding Summary table in the Status Report now
    correctly lists the peak depth of ponded water above the
    node's maximum depth (i.e., its rim or ground elevation)
    instead of above its invert elevation.

54. Occasional problems caused by the date/time functions not
    returning an hour between 0 and 23 (for hourly time patterns)
    and being off by 1 second (when writing results to outflow
    interface files) have been fixed.

55. A bug introduced in release 5.0.017 that caused the
    concentration after first-order decay in a storage node to
    be ignored has been fixed.

56. A bug in the Total Elapsed Time listed at the end of the
    Status Report for runs taking longer than 24 hours of
    computer time was fixed.

57. A correction was made for the slope correction factor used
    for mitered culvert inlets.

58. The procedure for finding the surface area of a storage unit
    given its volume was corrected for the case where the
    storage curve has a section of decreasing area with depth.

59. The procedure for finding a cross-section area given a
    section factor value was corrected for the case where the
    section factor table does not have its highest value as
    the last entry in the table.

60. An error in computing the hydraulic radius of the Rectangular-
    Triangular conduit shape as a function of flow depth was
    corrected.

GUI Updates

1.  The entire GUI code was ported from Delphi 7 into Delphi XE2.

2.  Different color themes for the user interface can be
    selected from the Program Preferences dialog.

3.  The "Data" Browser panel is now named as the "Project"
    Browser.

4.  The Object Toolbar has been eliminated. Visual objects
    are now added to the map in the same manner as non-visual
    objects -- by selecting their category from the Project
    Browser and then clicking the Browser's "+" button (or
    by selecting Project | Add... on the main menu).

5.  The LID Control and LID Usage editors were re-designed to
    accomodate the new LID control options.

6.  Modifications were made to accept the new engine features
    mentioned above (modified Horton infiltration, seepage rate
    parameter for conduits, side wall option for rectangular
    channels, and the additional Dynamic Wave routing options).

7.  Modifications were made to accept the updated set of output
    view variables.

8.  The summary results tables that used to appear as part of the
    Status Report have been moved into a separate Summary Report
    that makes it easier to view and sort them.

9.  The Time Series Plot selection dialog was modified to allow
    more than one kind of object/variable pair to be plotted.

10. The Graph Options dialog was modified to allow a vertical
    axis to be inverted (as when plotting an inverted rainfall
    hyetograph on the same graph as a runoff hydrograph).

11. The option to compute evaporation using the Hargreaves
    equation wasn't being saved along with the rest of a project.

12. If pollutants are defined for a project but the Water Quality
    analysis option is not selected, then after a new analysis is
    made pollutants will no longer be listed as theme variables in
    the Map Browser nor will they be available for graphs, tables
    or statistical reports.

13. The columns for the [XSECTIONS] section of a saved project
    file now includes a heading label for "Culvert Code".


SWMM 5.0 Update History
=======================

------------------------
Build 5.0.022 (04/21/11)
------------------------
Engine Updates

1.  The following fixes and updates were made to the LID
    module of the code (lid.c):

    a. The Drain Delay time for a Rain Barrel LID is now
       correctly converted internally from hours to seconds.

    b. The meaning of the Conductivity property of an LID's
       Storage layer has been changed. It is now defined as
       the saturated hydraulic conductivity of the native soil
       below the layer instead of the conductivity of the layer
       itself.

    c. Storage layers are now optional for Bio-Retention Cells
       and Permeable Pavement LIDs by allowing the layer height
       to be zero. One should still enter a non-zero conductivity
       for the layer if infiltration into native soil is allowed.

    d. If the top width of the overland flow surface for an LID
       is zero then any excess water above the surface storage
       depth simply spills out instantaneously.

    e. The calculation of infiltration in a Vegetative Swale
       was corrected so that a swale with vertical sides will
       produce the same results as a fully pervious subcatchment
       with the same dimensions, roughness, and slope.

    f. The water initially stored in all LID units is now reported
       in the Status Report's Runoff Continuity table.

    g. Error messages are now generated if the surface layer
       vegetation volume fraction is less than 1, if the area of
       all LIDs in a subcatchment is greater than the total area
       or if the total capture area of all LIDs is greater than
       the subcatchment's total impervious area.

2.  Missing values for accumulation periods within an NWS rain
    file are now processed correctly. See rain.c.

3.  A new error message (318) is now generated if a user-prepared
    rainfall file has its dates out of sequence. See rain.c, err.h,
    and err.c.

4.  Evaporation during wet time periods was including rainfall and
    run-on as moisture available for evaporation when it should
    only be the current ponded depth. See subcatch.c.

5.  Curve Number infiltration was modified to use only direct
    precipitation, not including runon or internally routed flow,
    to compute an infiltration rate. See infil.h, infil.c,
    subcatch.c and lid.c.

6.  A new error message (110) is now generated if the ground
    elevation of a subcatchment is less than the initial water
    table elevation of its groundwater aquifer. See gwater.c,
    err.h, and err.c.

7.  A check was added to the tailwater term of the groundwater flow
    equation to insure that the term is zero when no tailwater depth
    exists. See gwater.c.

8.  Checks were added to the solution of the governing groundwater
    mass balance equations to catch conditions where the lower zone
    depth is greater than the total depth or when the upper zone
    moisture content is greater than the porosity. See gwater.c.

9.  A divide by zero error no longer occurs when computing the
    hydraulic radius of an empty Filled Circular pipe whose filled
    depth is zero. A similar error for the hydraulic radius of an
    empty trapezoidal channel whose bottom width was zero was also
    eliminated. See xsect.c.

10. The critical or normal depth adjustment made for a conduit is
    no longer allowed to set the depth to zero -- some small depth
    level is always maintained. See dynwave.c.

11. The Pump Summary Report was expanded to include number of start-
    ups, minimum flow, and time off both the low and high ends of
    the pump curve. See objects.h, link.c, stats.c, and statsrpt.c.

12. When the setting of an orifice or weir was changed to 0 (to
    completely block flow) the flow depth in the element wasn't
    being set to 0. This was only a reporting error and had no
    effect on the flow routing calculations. See link.c.

13. The Node Surcharge Summary in the Status Report did not report
    a ponded node as being surcharged. This was only a reporting
    error and had no effect on the flow routing calculations. See
    stats.c.

GUI Updates

1.  A new map view variable for subcatchments, the percent of area
    occupied by LID controls, was added. This view allows one to
    easily distinguish which subcatchments have been assigned LIDs
    and which haven't.

2.  The LID Control Editor now checks to see that data fields that
    require fractions (such as vegetative volume, void volumes,
    soil porosity, etc.) contain valid entries.

3.  The LID Group Editor now checks that the total area of all LIDs
    assigned to a subcatchment does not exceed the area of the
    subcatchment and that the total percentage of impervious area
    treated by these LIDs does not exceed 100.

4.  Comments applied to Time Patterns are no longer lost when a
    project is saved and re-opened at a later time.

5.  The File | Export | Hostart option now saves the current
    groundwater state correctly.


------------------------
Build 5.0.021 (09/30/10)
------------------------
Engine Updates

1.  A code refactoring error in build 5.0.019 that resulted in no
    recovery of infiltration capacity during dry periods has been fixed.
    See subcatch.c.

2.  The pervious area adjustment used in 5.0.019 for evaporation and
    infiltration to a subcatchment's groundwater zone was corrected.
    See gwater.c.

3.  The accounting of evaporation loss from just the pervious area of a
    subcatchment has been corrected. See subcatch.c.

4.  The rainfall + runon used to compute infiltration is no longer
    pre-adjusted by subtracting any evaporation loss. See subcatch.c.

5.  The rate for Green-Ampt infiltration is no longer allowed to be
    less than the smaller of the saturated hydraulic conductivity and
    the available surface moisture. See infil.c.

6.  The available surface moisture for Green-Ampt infiltration is
    considered 0 if its value is less than a small tolerance. See
    infil.c.

7.  Evaporation and infiltration losses from Storage nodes under
    Kinematic Wave and Steady Flow routing are now accounted for
    properly. See flowrout.c.

8.  The Pollutant Loading summary tables in the Status Report now
    lists results for all pollutants in a single table instead of
    listing just 5 pollutants per table. See report.c.

GUI Updates

1.  The anchoring of the components on either side of the splitter
    bar on the Data Browser panel was changed to insure that the
    main window is displayed correctly when SWMM is first launched.

2.  The incorrect display of link slopes on the study area map under
    the Elevation Offsets option was corrected.



------------------------
Build 5.0.020 (08/23/10)
------------------------
Engine Updates

1.  A refactoring bug that prevented SWMM from reading rainfall data
    from external rainfall files was fixed. See gage.c.


------------------------
Build 5.0.019 (07/30/10)
------------------------
Engine Updates

1.  The ability to explicitly model five different types of Low Impact
    Development (LID) practices at the subcatchment level has been
    added. Consult the LID Controls topic in the Help file for details.
    See lid.c, lid.h, infil.c, infil.h, input.c, inputrpt.c, project.c,
    statsrpt.c, and subcatch.c.

2.  Pollutant buildup over a given landuse can now be specified by a time
    series instead of just a buildup function. Consult the Land Uses /
    Buildup topic in the Help index for more details. See landuse.c and
    keywords.c.

3.  An option was added to allow evaporation of standing water to occur
    only during periods with no precipitation (the default is the current
    practice of allowing evaporation in both wet and dry periods). See
    climate.c, enums.h, keywords.c, objects.h, project.c, subcatch.c,
    and text.h.

4.  Storage node losses from evaporation and infiltration are now computed
    directly within the flow routing routines to produce better
    conservation of mass. See objects.h, routing.c, dynwave.c and node.c.

5.  The check to see if flow in a link should not exceed the normal flow
    now uses just the upstream Froude number rather than both up and
    downstream numbers. See dynwave.c.

6.  The maximum trials used when evaluating the flow and head equations at
    a given time period for dynamic wave routing was increased from 4 to 8.
    See dynwave.c.

7.  The Ponding calculation for dynamic wave flow routing was changed once
    again to obtain better continuity results. The depth in a surcharged
    node that can pond is not allowed to rise higher than just beyond full
    depth in any single time step. After that, its change in depth is
    determined by the node's ponded area. Similarly, the depth of a ponded
    node is not allowed to drop more than just below full depth in any
    single time step. See dynwave.c and node.c.

8.  For Kinematic Wave and Steady Flow routing, a node's ponded area is
    no longer used to infer a ponded depth when a node floods with Ponding
    turned on. Instead, the water depth is simply set to the node's maximum
    depth and the ponded area parameter is simply used as a indicator as
    to whether the node can pond or not. (This differs from dynamic wave
    routing where the ponded area directly influences ponded depth through
    the solution of the momentum and flow conservation equations.) See
    flowrout.c.

9.  As a consequence of the preceeding update, the Node Flooding Summary
    table in the Status Report no longer displays the maximum ponded volume
    in acre-inches (or hectare-mm). Instead it displays the maximum ponded
    depth (ft or m) for Dynamic Wave flow routing or the maximum ponded
    volume (1000 ft3 or 1000 m3) for other forms of routing. See stats.c
    and statsrpt.c.

10. The groundwater mass balance equations were returned to the form they
    had in release 5.0.013 since they were not correctly accounting for
    the water volume transferred between the saturated and unsaturated
    zones due only to a change in the water table depth. See gwater.c.

11. Controls based on flow rates now properly account for the direction of
    flow when they are evaluated. This may require users to add an extra
    condition clause to a rule that only applies for flow in the positive
    direction (e.g., AND Link XXX FLOW >= 0.0). See controls.c.

12. The Villemonte correction for downstream submergence is now also used
    for partly filled orifices (instead of just for weirs). See link.c and
    dynwave.c.

13. A missing term in the equation used to check for submerged inlet
    control for Culvert conduits was fixed. See culvert.c.

14. If a non-conduit link is connected to a storage node then its
    contribution to the node's surface area is now ignored. See
    dynwave.c.

15. The automatic adjustment of the maximum depth of a link's end nodes
    to be at least as high as the link's crown no longer applies when
    the link is a bottom orifice. See link.c.

16. A fatal error message is now generated if a conduit's entrance,
    exit, or average loss coefficient value is negative. See link.c.

17. Requests to do internal routing of runoff between impervious and
    pervious sub-areas of a subcatchment when only one type of sub-area
    exists are now ignored. See subcatch.c.

18. The check on the error condition of a node having both incoming and
    outgoing dummy conduits was modified so as not to get fooled by
    Outlet-type links. See toposort.c.

19. The Ignore Snowmelt switch is now internally set to true whenever
    there are no snow pack objects defined, so that precipitation is not
    mistakenly converted to snow for a project with temperature data.
    See gage.c and project.c.

20. When reading min/max daily temperatures from a climate file, the
    values are now swapped if the minimum is greater than the maximum.
    See climate.c.

21. When the Hargreaves method is used to compute an evaporation rate
    from daily temperature values, negative rates are no longer allowed.
    See climate.c.

22. Several bugs that prevented SWMM from detecting and reading Canadian
    DLY02/04 climate files correctly were fixed. See climate.c.

23. An error message is now generated if a time series used for rainfall
    is also used for another purpose in a project (since it will cause
    the two uses to be out of synch). See error.h, error.c, gage.c,
    climate.c, control.c, and inflow.c.

24. An error message is now generated if two Rain Gages with files as
    their data source use the same Station IDs but different names for
    the data file. See rain.c, error.h, and error.c.

25. When zero rainfall values appear in a rain file or time series they
    are now skipped over and treated as a dry period, the same as would
    occur had they not been entered in the first place. See gage.c.

26. A bug that caused the data in an evaporation time series to be out
    of synch with the simulation time clock has been fixed. This only
    affected evaporation data supplied from time series and not monthly
    average data or data from climate files. See climate.c.

27. The water quality mass balance now correctly accounts for any initial
    mass in the system created by using a hot start file. See massbal.c.

28. For models that only compute runoff and have a reporting time step
    less than the wet time step, the latter is internally set equal to
    the former. See swmm5.c.

GUI Updates

1.  The Data Browser was updated to include the newly added Low Impact
    Development (LID) objects and new dialog forms were added to specify
    LID design data and their placement within a project's subcatchments.

2.  You can now open a project input file by dragging it from Windows
    Explorer (or the Desktop) and dropping it anywhere in SWMM's main
    window.

3.  A new checkbox was added to the Evaporation page of the Climatology
    Editor to include the option to evaporate only in dry periods.

4.  The choices for Function type on the Buildup page of the Land Use
    Editor were extended to include an external time series (EXT).

5.  SWMM will now continue to use the period (".")  as the decimal
    separator even if the user or the system changes the Windows Regional
    Settings while the program is running.

6.  A new installer program is now used that places the example data sets
    in the user's My Documents\EPA SWMM Projects folder.

7.  The components below the horizonal splitter bar on the Data Browser
    panel were placed in their own panel component so that the splitter
    would work correctly under Windows 7.

------------------------
Build 5.0.018 (11/18/09)
------------------------
Engine Updates

1.  Reporting of the total infiltration + evaporation loss for each
    Storage Unit (as a percent of total inflow to the unit) was added
    to the Storage Volume Summary table in the Status Report. See
    objects.h, node.c, stats.c, and statsrpt.c.

2.  Double counting the final stored volume when finding the nodes with
    the highest mass balance errors has been eliminated. See stats.c.

3.  A warning message was added for when a Rain Gage's recording
    interval is less than the smallest time interval appearing in its
    associated rainfall time series. (An error message is issued if
    the recording interval is greater than the smallest time series
    interval.) See gage.c and text.h.

4.  Hot Start interface files now contain the final state of each
    subcatchment's groundwater zone in addition to the node and
    link information they have always had. See routing.c.

5.  To avoid confusion, the actual conduit slope is now listed in the
    Link Summary table of the Status Report rather than the adjusted
    slope that results from any conduit lengthening. See link.c and
    dynwave.c.

6.  The Status Report now displays only those summary tables for
    which results have been obtained (e.g., if the Flow Routing
    option is turned off, then no node or link tables are displayed).
    See massbal.c and statsrpt.c.

7.  Some code re-factoring was done to place rain gage validation
    and initialization in separate functions. See project.c, gage.c,
    and funcs.h.

8.  The engine version number was updated to 50018 (this update had
    been overlooked since release 5.0.010). See consts.h.

GUI Updates

1.  A bug that prevented Status Report files from being deleted from
    a users TEMP folder when they were no longer in use was corrected.
    Users should check their TEMP folders (usually in
    c:\Documents and Settings\<User Name>\Local Settings\Temp)
    for old files that begin with "swm". These can safely be deleted.

2.  The project input file created for use by SWMM's Add-On Tools now
    contains all project data, including map coordinates and element
    tags.


-----------------------
Build 5.0.017 (10/7/09)
-----------------------
Engine Updates

1.  The Ponding routine for dynamic wave flow routing was once
    again modified, this time to account for the special case
    where a node transitions between surcharged and ponded
    conditions within a single time step. This should correct
    the large continuity errors experienced with ponding under
    release 5.0.016. See dynwave.c.

2.  Error 112 (a conduit's elevation drop exceeds its length)
    is now treated as a Warning condition and not a fatal error.
    In this case the conduit's slope is computed as in earlier
    versions of SWMM (elevation drop / length) instead of using
    the more rigorous right-triangle method of HEC-RAS. See
    link.c and text.h.

3.  Inflow interface files no longer have to contain data for
    all of the same pollutants defined in the current project
    (e.g., they can contain just flows or some subset of the
    pollutants). See iface.c.

4.  Instead of using the rain gage's recording interval as the
    time step for processing a set of RDII unit hydrographs, the
    smaller of the wet runoff time step and the time to peak of
    the shortest unit hydrograph in the set is now used. As a
    result, it is now permissible to use hydrographs whose time
    to peak is shorter than the rain gage recording interval.
    See rdii.c.

5.  Under Curve Number infiltration, infiltration now stops when
    the maximum capacity (initially equal to 1000/CN - 10 inches)
    is completely used up. See infil.c.

6.  The small tolerance used to determine how much ponded depth
    in excess of depression storage is needed to initiate runoff
    was removed. This produces a smoother runoff response for
    some data sets. See subcatch.c.

7.  A default concentration for dry weather flow has been added
    to the Pollutant object. It can be overriden for any specific
    node by editing the node's Inflows property. See landuse.c,
    routing.c, and objects.h.

8.  For water quality routing, the simplified analytical
    solution to the CSTR mixing equation was replaced with a
    more robust finite difference approximation. This seems
    to avoid numerical problems with high decay rates. See
    qualrout.c.

9.  First order decay was not being applied to pollutants
    transported through conduits under Steady Flow routing. To
    do this correctly required writing a special water quality
    routine just for Steady Flow routing. See qualrout.c.

10. A small minimum depth tolerance was introduced for treatment
    to occur at nodes and to have non-zero concentrations in
    conduits. See qualrout.c.

11. Large water quality mass balance errors in systems that
    provide treatment at nodes were eliminated by correctly
    accounting for both the inflow mass and mass in storage
    when computing the mass lost to treatment. See treatmnt.c.

GUI Updates

1.  The property editor for Pollutant objects was modified to
    accommodate the new default dry weather flow concentration
    property.

2.  The default dry weather runoff time step was reduced from
    15 to 5 minutes and the default total duration was changed
    from 0 to 6 hours.

3.  The Ruler tool now displays a small square where the user
    begins their measurement so that its easier to create a
    closed polygon when measuring an area.


-----------------------
Build 5.0.016 (6/22/09)
-----------------------
Engine Updates

1.  A new option was added to compute daily evaporation from the
    daily temperature values contained in a climate file using
    Hargreaves' method. (See climate.c, enums.h, keywords.h, and
    text.h).

2.  When the Ponding option is turned on, nodes that can pond are no
    longer always treated like storage nodes that never surcharge.
    Now they are only treated this way after ponding occurs. Otherwise
    they behave like a normal node. (See dynwave.c).

3.  The small tolerance used to decide when a storage node was full or
    not has been removed since for very small time steps it could cause
    a currently full storage unit to remain full even if there was some
    small net outflow from it. (See node.c).

4.  Spurious warnings for negative elevation offsets no longer appear
    when the "*" entry is used for the offset value or when the offset
    elevation value is within a small tolerance of the node invert
    elevation. (See link.c).

5.  When the water level at a storage node exceeds the highest level
    supplied in its Storage Curve, an extrapolated surface area from
    the curve is now used only if the curve is sloping outward (i.e.,
    surface area is increasing with depth at the top of the curve). If
    instead it slopes inward then the last surface area entry in the
    curve is used. (See table .c).

6.  Comma delimited NCDC rainfall files, both with and without station
    name, can now be recognized and read correctly by SWMM. (See rain.c).

7.  Space delimited NCDC rainfall files with empty spaces in the condition
    code fields can now be read correctly. (See rain.c).

8.  A bug created in release 5.0.015 that caused incorrect RDII inflows
    to be computed when the rain gage recording interval was less than
    the runoff wet time step has been fixed. (See rdii.c).

9.  A new error check was added to detect if the time base of an RDII
    unit hydrograph is less than its rain gage recording interval.
    (See rdii.c).

GUI Updates

1.  The Evaporation page of the Climate Editor was modified to accommodate
    the new option for computing evaporation from daily temperatures.

2.  Evaporation Rate has been added to the list of System variables that
    can be viewed in time series plots and tables.

3.  The term "Shape Curve" was replaced by "Storage Curve" in the Storage
    Unit Property Editor to remove any confusion with the Shape Curve used
    to define custom closed cross-section shapes.


-----------------------
Build 5.0.015 (4/10/09)
-----------------------
Engine Updates

1.  Storage unit nodes have a new optional property named Infiltration
    that can store Green-Ampt infiltration parameters for the unit and
    thus allow it to serve as an infiltration basin. The Green-Ampt
    infiltration model was modified to explicitly include the effect
    of ponded water depth on infiltration rate. (See infil.c,
    massbal.c, node.c, and objects.h).

2.  Different sets of Initial Abstraction parameters (maximum depth,
    initial depth, and recovery rate) can now be specified for each
    of the three unit hydrographs (short term, medium term, and long
    term) that comprise an RDII Unit Hydrograph group (see keywords.h,
    keywords.c, objects.h, rdii.c, and text.h).

3.  A Meander Modifier was added to a Transect's parameters. It is the
    ratio of the length of a meandering main channel to the length of
    the overbank area that surrounds it. This modifier is applied to
    all conduits that use this particular transect for their cross
    section. It assumes that the length supplied for these conduits is
    that of the longer main channel. SWMM will use the shorter overbank
    length in its calculations while internally increasing the main
    channel roughness to account for its longer length. (See dynwave.c,
    flowrout.c, link.c, objects.h, and transect.c).

4.  NWS files in space delimited TD 3240 or 3260 format that include a
    station name field have been added to the types of rainfall files
    that are automatically recognized by SWMM (see rain.c).

5.  The 2 GB binary output file size limit for runs made under the GUI
    that was inadvertently added into release 5.0.014 was removed
    (see output.c).

6.  Any backflow that flows into an outfall node due to the head
    condition at the node is now correctly reported as part of the
    node's Total Inflow result (see node.c).

7.  A fatal error is now generated if the smallest time interval between
    values in a rainfall time series does not match the recording time
    interval specified for the associated rain gage object (instead of
    internally adjusting the gage interval and issuing a warning message)
    (see error.c, error.h, and gage.c).

8.  The normal flow limitation for dynamic wave flow routing based on
    the Froude number now requires that the latter be greater or equal
    to 1.0 for both the upstream and downstream flow depths rather just
    for either of these (see dynwave.c).

9.  A reporting error for the overflow rate into the ponded volume for
    a node that floods under dynamic wave flow routing was corrected
    (see dynwave.c).

10. The practice of not allowing a computed top surface width to be less
    than the width at 4% of the full conduit depth for dynamic wave flow
    routing has been dropped in favor of using the actual width, no matter
    how small (see dynwave.c).

GUI Updates

1.  Data entry forms were modified to support the new modeling features
    described in the Engine Updates items (1) - (3).

2.  A problem with the way that conduits with elevation offsets were
    displayed in profile plots drawn prior to a run was corrected.

-----------------------
Build 5.0.014 (1/21/09)
-----------------------
Engine Updates

Rain Gages (gage.c, table.c, error.c, error.h, and objects.h)
1.   The recording interval for a rain gage is now automatically adjusted
     to be no greater than the smallest time interval for the gage's time
     series data (with a warning message written to the Status Report).
2.   When two or more rain gages reference the same time series data, a
     fatal error message is now generated if the Rainfall Formats
     (intensity, volume, or cumulative volume) for the gages are not all
     the same.

Infiltration (infil.c)
3.   The Green-Ampt infiltration rate was corrected for the case when
     the surface becomes saturated part way through the current time step.
4.   The saturated hydraulic conductivity is no longer needed by the
     Curve Number method to compute a regeneration rate for infiltration
     capacity. The latter is now set simply to the reciprocal of the user
     supplied drying time. Thus the CN method now requires only two param-
     eters (the CN and the drying time).
5.   An optional monthly adjustment pattern can now be used to modify the
     recovery rate of infiltration capacity by month of year. The name of
     this pattern is specified as part of the Evaporation data. See the
     Help file or the Users Manual for details. (This also affects files
     climate.c, keywords.c, project.c, enums.h, objects.h, and text.h).

Flow Routing (flowrout.c, node.c, inflow.c, link.c, and objects.h)
6.   A new Minimum Slope option has been added. When this option is non-
     zero a computed conduit slope is not allowed to be below this value.
     The default is 0. (Note: the slope of a conduit whose elevation
     difference is below 0.001 ft is first computed using this elevation
     difference and then is compared to the Minimum Slope value.) (The
     following files were also changed for this feature: keywords.c,
     project.c, enums.h, globals.h, text.h).
7.   An optional Baseline Time Pattern was added for external inflows at
     nodes. It can be used to apply a periodic adjustment to the baseline
     inflow value by month of year, day of week, etc. See the Help file or
     the Users Manual for more details.
8.   Specific conduits can now be designated as Culverts and have Inlet
     Control flow computed for them under Dynamic Wave flow routing.
9.   The rating curve used to determine flow through an Outlet can now be
     based on either the freeboard depth above the outlet bottom (as
     before) or on the head difference between the upstream and downstream
     nodes.
10.  The calculation of the maximum outflow that a node can release over
     a time step should be based on the initial volume, not the final
     volume, at the node.
11.  A problem with the program not accepting an ideal pump when the
     connecting upstream conduit had an adverse slope was fixed.
12.  The formula used to compute conduit slope was modified to match that
     used by HEC-RAS.
13.  A problem with the program crashing when the No Routing option was
     selected in combination with the Save Outflows Interface File option
     was fixed (see output.c).
14.  Under Steady Flow and Kinematic Wave routing one can now use a Dummy
     conduit that connects to a node at higher elevation without having
     to specify an inlet offset.

Dynamic Wave Flow Routing (dynwave.c, link.c, and node.c)
15.  Under-relaxation of flows for pumps between iterations of the
     governing equations is no longer used since it can produce a
     solution that does not conform to the pump's operating curve.
16.  Instead of the average area, the upstream weighted area that
     accounts for near-supercritical flow is now used in the dQ/dH
     term for conduits.
17.  The upstream/downstream Froude numbers used to check for normal
     flow are now computed using hydraulic depth rather than flow depth.
18.  When ponding is allowed, ponded volume is now computed from the
     computed nodal depth rather than adjusting the depth to accommodate
     the ponded volume based on the excess of inflow versus outflow. This
     is a return to the original method that was used up until Release
     5.0.010 and makes ponding (which is actually a form of storage)
     consistent with the way that storage nodes are normally treated.
19.  The volume at the inlet node of Type I pumps (where an implicit
     wet well is assumed to occur) is now determined on the basis of
     computed depth, just as with storage nodes, rather than computing
     depth from the change in volume.
20.  The possible closing of tide gates on outfalls directly connected
     to orifice, weir, or outlet links is now correctly accounted for.

Conduit Cross-Sections (xsect.c)
21.  The modified baskethandle (MODBASKETHANDLE) cross-section shape
     was extended to allow the circular top to have any desired radius
     equal or greater than half the section's width. It thus becomes
     an upside down version of the Rectangular-Round shape. The section
     geometry functions for both shapes received extensive revision.

Control Rules (controls.c)
22.  "SIMULATION MONTH" and "SIMULATION DAY" (meaning month of the year
     and day of the week, respectively) have been added to the types of
     time conditions that can be used in a control rule condition clause.

Pollutant Buildup/Washoff (subcatch.c,  landuse.c, and consts.h)
23.  Washoff of a user-specified initial buildup when there is no buildup
     function specified now works correctly.
24.  The way that concentrations in runoff are combined with those
     from runon and direct rainfall was modified so as to produce more
     consistent results, especially when a BMP removal value is appled.

Water Quality Routing (qualrout.c, routing.c, treatmnt.c)
25.  For storage units, the finite difference form of the mass balance
     equation was replaced with the analytical CSTR solution.
26.  An inflow rate adjustment was added when routing quality through
     conduits under Dynamic Wave flow routing to help lower the mass
     continuity error.
27.  The formula for updating the hydraulic residence time (HRT) in a
     storage node was revised.
28.  Quality routing under Steady Flow routing is now treated as a
     special case where the concentration within a conduit simply equals
     that of the upstream node.
29.  Any reverse flow into the system that occurs at an Outfall node is
     now treated as an external inflow with respect to water quality and
     will therefore contain whatever pollutant concentration was specified
     for external inflows at the node even if no external flow inflow was
     defined. This feature can be used to model saltwater or contaminant
     intrusion in tidally influenced channels.

Groundwater (gwater.c):
30.  The mass balance equations were re-formulated in a simpler fashion.
31.  The flow equation was re-expressed in terms of distances above the
     aquifer bottom instead of absolute elevations.
32.  The equation for computing the maximum infiltration rate that the
     upper zone can accept was corrected.

Snowmelt (snow.c)
33.  Snow removal for a subcatchment now works by removing snow once the
     "Depth at which removal begins" is reached. The fraction of this
     amount that remains on the surface is whatever is left over after
     all of the redistribution options are satisfied.
34.  The "Depth at which removal begins" value is now correctly converted
     to internal units of feet.

RDII (rdii.c)
35.  A problem with no RDII being produced when two or more RDII unit
     hydrographs utilized the same rain gage was fixed.

Time Series (table.c, error.c, error.h, objects.h)
36.  Time Series data can now be imported from an external file instead
     of having to be listed in the project's input file. See the Users
     Manual or the Help file for details.

Simulation Options
37.  A user can now choose to ignore any combination of the following
     process models when running a simulation: Rainfall/Runoff, Snowmelt,
     Groundwater, Flow Routing and Water Quality (swmm5.c, project.c,
     runoff.c, subcatch.c, routing.c, keywords.c, keywords.h, text.h,
     and globals.h).

Status Report (statsrpt.c)
38.  The heading for the maximum flow column in the Link Flow Summary table
     was changed to "|Flow|" to show that the flows listed are absolute
     values.
39.  The labels "Mgal" and "Mltrs" were replaced with "10^6 gal" and
     "10^6 ltr", respectively.
40.  The widths for the various types of flow volume fields (e.g., runoff
     volume, node inflow volume, etc.) were increased in size.

Binary Output File (output.c)
41.  The Report Start Time written to the binary results is now
     adjusted to be be one reporting period prior to when the first
     result is reported so that the GUI uses the correct date when it
     displays results.

Output Report (command line version) (report.c)
42.  Time series tables for reported subcatchments now report Snow Depth,
     Groundwater Elevation, and Groundwater Flow (provided that snowmelt
     and groundwater processes are included in the simulation).


GUI Updates:

1.  Support was added for the following new engine features:
    a. minimum conduit slope option
    b. culvert designation for specific conduits
    c. monthly infiltration recovery Pattern
    d. Baseline Time Pattern for external inflows
    e. updated Modified Baskethandle cross-section shape
    f. either depth-based or head-based Outlet rating curves
    g. options to ignore selected process models
    h. use of an external file as source of time series data.

2.  Regarding 1h above, the Time Series Editor dialog was modified to
    include the external data file option.

3.  A new category of Simulation Options named Reporting has been
    added. When this category is selected for editing in the Data
    Browser, a Reporting Options dialog appears from which one can
    limit the number of objects whose simulation results are saved
    and can be reported. The default is to save results for all
    objects.

4.  The Group Editing feature was extended to include subcatchment
    Snow Packs and Groundwater Flow parameters.

5.  The Help -> Tutorial menu command now works correctly to launch the
    newer HTML version of the SWMM5 Tutorial Help file.

6.  The File -> Export -> Hotstart File command now converts metric
    results to internal SWMM US units before saving them to the hotstart
    file.

7.  Commas are no longer recognized as item separators when reading input
    files since this was causing problems when a comma was used in the ID
    name of an object (which is allowable).

8.  The coordinates of the default natural areal depletion curve for snow
    packs were changed to correspond to those appearing in the National
    Weather Service publications on which SWMM's snow melt routines were
    based.

9.  A problem with not loading a specified startup input file when
    epaswmm5.exe is launched from the command line (or from an Explorer
    shortcut) was fixed.

10. A problem with the simulation progress meter not displaying the correct
    number of elapsed days during long-term simulations was fixed.

11. A problem with Profile Plots not being updated correctly when users
    changed certain display options was corrected.

12. The following updates to the Profile Plot feature were made:
    i.   The selected links are now checked to make sure that they exist
         and form a connected path.
    ii.  The vertical axis scaling can now be set from the Profile Plot
         Options dialog.
    iii. The filled-in water level at junctions is now drawn only as high
         as the maximum junction depth (i.e., the ground surface), even if
         the HGL is higher.

13. A problem with copying just a single column of a Tabular Report to the
    clipboard or to a file was corrected.

14. A problem with the selection buttons on the Time Series and Tablular
    Report Selection dialog becoming stuck in the disabled mode was fixed.

15. If an external file (such as a rainfall climate, or interface file)
    resides in the same directory as the project file then the directory
    path portion of the file name is omitted when the file name is saved
    within the project file. This will make it easier to share project
    files with other users and computers.

16. The name of the "Rainfall" theme variable was changed to "Precipitation".

17. When the Auto-Backup program preference is selected, a backup file is now
    created whenever the current project file is saved to disk, not just when
    the project is first opened.


-----------------------
Build 5.0.013 (3/11/08)
-----------------------
Engine Updates:

1.  The check on acceptable values for site latitude was
    corrected (see climate.c).

2.  The definition and implementation of the PID controller
    was changed. See the Help file or the Users Manual for
    details (see controls.c).

3.  The following changes were made to the dynamic wave flow
    routing routine in dynwave.c:
    a. A new method that places more weight on upstream conduit
       geometry as the Froude number approaches 1 was added.
    b. A code re-factoring error that crept into the inertial
       term of the momentum equation was corrected.
    c. The flow in a fully flowing open channel can no longer be
       greater than the full normal flow.
    d. The Normal Flow Limit based on both slope and Froude number
       was modified to simply implement the two criteria together
       in the same fashion as they are done individually.
    e. A check was added that prevents any flow out of a node that
       is dry.
    f. The ponding computation was reverted back to that of 5.0.009
       (depth is computed from volume rather than volume computed
       from depth) to better maintain flow continuity.
    g. Using the maximum allowable change in depth at a node as a
       criterion for selecting a variable time step was restored.

4.  The crown elevations of any connecting non-conduit links are
    now considered when determining a node's crown elevation (see
    flowrout.c).

5.  The possibility that the initial setting of an orifice was not
    being made correctly was eliminated (see link.c).

6.  Error checks were added to test for invalid numbers in a hot
    start file (see routing.c).

GUI Updates:

1.  Checks were added to test for erroneous values in an INI file
    that would prevent a graph from displaying properly.


----------------------
Build 5.0.012 (2/4/08)
----------------------
Engine Updates:

1.  The summary results tables written to the Status Report file
    have been updated and expanded. See the Users Manual for more
    details. Code changes to support this were made to dynwave.c,
    flowrout.c, funcs.h, inputrpt.c (a new module), keywords.c,
    keywords.h, link.c, objects.h, output.c, report.c, stats.c,
    statsrpt.c (a new module), and text.h.

2.  Conduit offsets can now be specified as an absolute
    elevation or, as before, a relative depth above the node
    invert. The same is true for the bottom of orifices, weirs,
    and outlets. The "Link Offsets" setting in the GUI and the
    corresponding LINK_OFFSETS entry in the project's input file
    determine which option, DEPTH or ELEVATION, is in effect.
    (see project.c, link.c, keywords.c, keywords.h, globals.h,
    and text.h).

3.  A PID-type controller has been added to the types of
    modulated control rules that are available. See the Help
    file or the Users Manual for instructions on how to use
    this feature (see controls.c and keywords.c).

4.  In the simulation results, "flooding" is now considered to
    occur whenever the water level exceeds the top of a node,
    whether ponding occurs or not. Before, flooding was only
    recorded when there was no ponding and node overflow was lost
    from the system (see dynwave.c, flowrout.c, massbal.c, node.c,
    stats.c, and statsrpt.c).

5.  The point at which the time to drain the upper soil zone for
    Green-Ampt infiltration is first calculated was moved from time
    0 to the time when the first rainfall period occurs. This fixes
    a problem where different runoff hydrographs were being produced
    when a project's start date was shifted slightly (see infil.c).

6.  The criteria used to determine when steady state flow
    conditions exist were changed to more closely follow those
    used in SWMM 4 (see routing.c and the Help File or Users
    Manual for the Skip Steady Periods option).

7.  The optional user-assigned maximum flow limit for conduits was
    made operational for all flow routing options, not just Dynamic
    Wave routing (see link.c).

8.  SI unit conversion problems for both a pump's on/off depth
    settings and its pump curve slope values were fixed (see link.c).

9.  The possibility that ponding could occur at the inlet (wet well)
    node for a Type I pump was added (see dynwave.c).

10. A mistake in the Hazen-WIlliams head loss formula for force
    main conduits was corrected (see forcmain.c).

11. The minimum limit of 0.0001 on flow area and hydraulic radius
    computed from flow depth during dynamic wave routing was removed
    since flow depth is already limited by this amount (see dynwave.c).

12. The flow direction test added for checking UPSTREAM CRITICAL and
    DOWNSTREAM CRITICAL flow conditions in dynamic wave flow routing
    was removed to prevent solutions from becoming stuck (see
    dynwave.c).

13. The use of a maximum allowable change in depth at a node as a
    criterion for selecting a variable time step for dynamic wave
    flow routing was dropped (see dynwave.c).

14. A more refined method for computing the flow across a bottom
    orifice at low heads was implemented. (see link.c).

15. The head loss calculation caused by flap gates in weirs was
    extended to orifices as well (see link.c).

16. The computation of depth as a function of area for a trapezoidal
    channel was extended to consider the case where the user used
    0 for the side slopes (making it a rectangular channel - a
    holdover from SWMM 4) (see xsect.c).

17. A bug introduced in 5.0.010 that was preventing RDII from being
    computed for unit hydrographs that used the same rain gage as
    another unit hydrograph was fixed (see rdii.c and objects.h).

18. Pollutant loading from RDII was corrected to be based on the
    pollutant's specified RDII quality rather than its rainfall
    quality (see routing.c).

19. The "Snow Only" option for the buildup of a pollutant was never
    actually implemented and has now been added (see subcatch.c).

20. Additional error checking for valid snow melt and snow pack
    input parameters was added (see snow.c, error.c, and error.h).

21. The same runoff threshold is now used for both pollutant washoff
    (when above the threshold) and buildup (when below the threshold)
    to avoid non-zero runoff concentrations from being reported
    during periods with negligible runoff (see subcatch.c).

22. The values for total system outflow and system flooding that are
    saved to the binary results file at each reporting time step are
    now set equal to the same values that are used for computing the
    overall flow continuity error, thus avoiding inconsistent system
    outflow values being generated for some data sets (see output.c).

23. For the command line version of SWMM, the default END_TIME option
    was corrected from being 24 days to 0 days (i.e., midnight of the
    END_DATE value) (see project.c and swmm5.c).

GUI Updates:

1.  The Status Bar on the bottom of the main window was given a new look,
    with drop down buttons added for changing the Link Offsets convention
    and the project's flow units.

2.  A combo-box was added to the Nodes/Links page of the Project Defaults
    dialog to select the Link Offsets convention (in addition to the
    button on the Status Bar).

3.  The choice of Flow Units was removed from the General Options page
    of the Simulations Options dialog and placed into a drop down button
    on the main window's Status Bar. (As before, one can also set flow
    units from the Nodes/Links page of the Project Defaults dialog.

4.  A Bookmarks panel was added to the Status Report window to make it
    easier to navigate between different sections within the report.

5.  A new Measurement Tool button was added to the Map Toolbar that
    allows one to measure the distance of a polyline or the area of a
    polygon drawn directly on the study area map.

6.  Storage Units were added to the choice of objects that can be
    edited using the Group Editor dialog.

7.  The length assumed for non-conduit objects displayed on a profile
    plot was reduced from 100 ft to 10 ft.

8.  A "View Conduits Only" option was added to the Profile Plot Options
    dialog that makes the plot display just the water depth in the
    conduits along the profile and not show the HGL and ground surface.
    This allows one to get a better view of how full a conduit is.

9.  The Project Data viewer (launched when Project | Details is selected)
    can now be split into two views by selecting Window | Split from its
    menu bar (or Window | Remove Split to remove the split view).

10. The number of decimal places set for each computed variable on the
    Number Formats page of the Program Preferences dialog is now saved
    between sessions as the other preferences are.

11. Current simulation results are now always saved between sessions
    (if requested by the user) even if data were modified after the
    last run was made. In this case, when the project is opened again,
    the Run Status icon will show that results are available but need
    updating.

12. If the user changes the display format of a Date/Time axis in the
    Graph Options dialog and checks the Default box in the dialog, then
    this format will be used for all future time series plots for the
    current project.

13. A problem with the Profile Plot dialog not always identifying the
    path of fewest links between two nodes when asked to do so was
    corrected.

14. Entries in the [REPORT] section of a project input file that were
    used to define reporting options for the command line version of
    SWMM 5 will no longer be lost when the project is run under the
    GUI version of SWMM. The GUI version simply ignores them but adds
    them into the project file whenever it is saved.

15. Conduit lengths and areas were always being re-computed after the
    study area map's dimensions or distance units were changed with the
    Map Dimensions dialog rather than only when the user selected the
    re-compute option on the dialog.

16. The backdrop map now pans to the correct position when the Edit |
    Find Object command is used to locate an object that is currently
    not in view on the staudy area map.

17. The problem of having the name of a subcatchment's outlet node
    or groundwater node be lost whenever that node was converted to
    another type using the study area map's right-click popup menu
    was fixed.

18. The Statistics Report analyzer was failing to include the last
    event in its calculations for some data sets.

19. Additional input validation was added to the Snow Pack editor form.

----------------------
Build 5.0.011 (7/16/07
----------------------
Engine Updates:

1.  A bug that prevented Weir and Outlet settings from being
    updated after they were changed by control rules was fixed
    (see link.c).

2.  The control setting for a Weir was not being accounted
    for when computing an equivalent orifice coefficient for
    surcharged flow or when computing flow through a V-notch
    weir (see link.c).

3.  The reported depth of flow through a Weir was not taking into
    account the Weir's control setting (see link.c).

4.  An update made in 5.0.010 to how ponded depths and volumes are
    computed under dynamic wave flow routing was corrected (see
    dynwave.c).

5.  The equations used to mix the quality of runon, rainfall and
    ponded water over a subcatchment were revised to prevent
    numerical instability at very low volumes (see subcatch.c).

6.  Missing values in NCDC rainfall files that use the 'M' flag
    are now added to the total number of missing records reported
    (see rain.c).

GUI Updates

1.  A bug introduced in release 5.0.010 that neglected to place
    quotation marks around Map Labels and backdrop file names
    (which can have spaces in them) when a project was saved to
    file and which caused problems when the project was re-opened
    has been fixed.


-----------------------
Build 5.0.010 (6/19/07)
-----------------------
Engine Updates:

1.  All "float" variables were re-declared as "doubles"
    (except for those variables written to binary interface
    files) and the engine was re-compiled using the Microsoft
    VC++ 2005 compiler.

2.  A new NO ROUTING option was added which allows a run to
    ignore any flow routing and only compute runoff (see
    swmm5.c, keywords.c, stats.c, and enums.h).

3.  A new type of pump, an Ideal Pump, was added which pumps at a
    rate equal to the inflow to its inlet node and does not use a
    pump curve (see enums.h, link.c, and flowrout.c).

4.  A new type of conduit shape, a Custom Shape, was added which
    allows users to define their own cross-sectional geometry for
    closed conduits. To implement this feature, a new type of curve,
    a Shape Curve, was added which records how the width of the
    cross-section varies with height. (See keywords.c, link.c,
    project.c, report.c, shape.c, xsect.c, enums.h, funcs.h,
    globals.h, objects.h, and text.h).

5.  Another new type of conduit shape, a Circular Force Main, was
    added. It is a circular pipe that uses either the Hazen-Williams
    or Darcy-Weisbach equations, instead of the Manning equation,
    for pressurized flow only. The Hazen-Williams C-factor or the
    Darcy-Weisbach roughness height is one of the shape's parameters.
    The choice of which equation to use (for Force Mains only) is a
    new global option. (See project.c, forcmain.c, dynwave.c,
    keywords.c, link.c, xsect.c, enums.h, globals.h and text.h).

6.  Pumps can now have startup and shutoff inlet node depths supplied
    directly as part of a pump's properties rather than as part of a
    control rule. (See link.c, routing.c, objects.h, and funcs.h).

7.  Orifices can now have timed gate openings and closings as in
    SWMM 4 (i.e., the SWMM 4 ORATE parameter). (See link.c and
    objects.h).

8.  Unit Hydrographs used for RDII inflows can now have an initial
    abstraction loss associated with them. Consult the Users Manual
    or the Help file for details. (See rdii.c and objects.h).

9.  A new criterion was added to determine when a conduit has
    supercritical flow and therefore normal flow conditions
    might apply. It is based on both water surface slope and
    the Froude number (as opposed to just one or the other).
    (See dynwave.c, project.c, keywords.c, enums.h, and text.h).

10. A Flow Instability Index is now computed for each non-pump link.
    It counts the number of time steps in which the link's flow is
    either higher or lower than the flows at the previous and next
    time steps. The Status Report lists the links with the five
    highest indexes. (See objects.h, stats.c, and report.c).

11. Node volumes are now initialized to take account of any initial
    ponding that may be implied by the node depth stored in a hot
    start file (see flowrout.c).

12. The area corrections to the inlet and outlet loss terms under
    dynamic wave flow routing that were introduced in Build 5.0.008
    were removed (see dynwave.c).

13. To comply more closely with standard hydraulic practice, the
    head across an orifice is now computed with respect to the
    midpoint of its opening, rather than to the bottom. Also,
    orifices are now treated the same as weirs in terms of not
    contributing any surface area to their end nodes (see link.c
    and dynwave.c).

14. The partly opened setting for an orifice is now interpreted as
    fraction of the full orifice opening height available rather
    than as the fraction of the full area available. Also, the
    equivalent discharge coefficient for a partly full orifice is
    now re-computed whenever the setting of the orifice changes
    (see link.c).

15. In kinematic wave flow routing, when a conduit's inflow is
    limited to its maximum normal flow, its corresponding inflow
    area is now correctly normalized to the full flow area (see
    kinwave.c).

16. For dynamic wave flow routing, the criteria used to check if
    a node is not full before using its depth to compute a variable
    time step was corrected to avoid excessively small time steps
    (see dynwave.c).

17. The width v. depth table for circular shapes was expanded to 51
    entries to match that of the other tables for this shape (see
    xsect.dat).

18. The number of entries in the geometry tables for irregular
    cross-sections was increased to 51 entries (see objects.h).

19. For Divider nodes, both end nodes of the diversion link are now
    checked to see if one of them is connected to the divider node
    (see node.c).

20. Conditions on Outlet links are now correctly recognized in control
    rule statements and an error message is now generated if more than
    one rule clause is placed on the same line (see controls.c).

21. When the Ignore Rainfall option is used, a rain gage's rainfall is
    now properly initialized to 0 to prevent a spurious rainfall value
    from being reported (see gage.c).

22. An explicit check is now made in the engine (which already exists
    in the GUI) to see if the ID name of the outlet of a subcatchment
    exists as both a node and a subcatchment. If so, then Error 108
    is thrown. (See subcatch.c).

23. The column in the Node Depth Summary of the Status Report that
    previously displayed the total volume of ponded water at each
    node (but was labelled "Total Flooding") now displays the maximum
    volume of ponded water at each node and is labelled "Max Vol. Ponded".
    Also, flow values appearing in the Status Report's tables were expanded
    to 3 decimal places for MGD and CMS units, and an additional
    decimal place was added to ponded area and conduit length in the
    report's Input Summary tables (see stats.c and report.c).

24. When a node is ponded under dynamic wave routing, the water depth
    is now always set equal to the ponded depth rather than the smaller
    of the ponded and dynamic depths (see dynwave.c).

25. A more efficient way of processing the mathematical expressions
    used in treatment functions has been implemented (see mathexpr.h,
    mathexpr.c, and objects.h).

26. A bug in the Groundwater routine that allowed infiltration to
    continue even when the entire groundwater table was saturated was
    fixed as was a metric units conversion error on computed groundwater
    flow (see gwater.c).

27. The locations of the left and right overbank stations for an
    irregular channel transect are now adjusted by the Station Modifier
    multiplier, in the same way as all of the other station locations
    across the transect are.

28. An error in computing the flow contribution of the triangular
    ends of a trapezoidal weir was corrected (see link.c).

29. A roundoff error under kinematic wave and steady flow routing that
    sometimes caused nodes to be incorrectly reported as ponded was
    fixed (see flowrout.c).

GUI Updates:

1.  A "Tools" item was added to SWMM's main menu. The existing menu
    options to set Program Preferences and Map Display Options were
    moved there. In addition, it contains a "Configure Tools" option
    that can be used register add-in tools with SWMM 5. Consult the
    Users Manual or the Help file for more information regarding add-
    in tools.

2.  A "None" option was added to the choice of routing methods on the
    General page of the Simulation Options dialog to accommodate the
    new No Routing analysis option.

3.  The Property Editor for Pumps was modified to allow the Pump Curve
    field to remain blank (or accept a *) to signify the new Ideal type
    pump and to accept startup and shutoff depths.

4.  The Property Editor for orifices was modified to include a Time To
    Close/Open field.

5.  The Unit Hydrograph Editor dialog was modified to include the new
    Initial Abstraction parameters.

6.  The Analysis Options dialog was modified to accommodate the new
    supercritical flow criterion.

7.  The Cross-Section Editor and the Curve Editor were modified to
    accommodate the new Custom cross-section shape feature as well as
    the new Circular Force Main shape.

8.  The File | Export menu has a new option that, once a run has been
    successfully made, will export the node and link results at the
    current time period being viewed to a Hotstart file.

9.  The popup menu for toggling the map's Auto-Length feature was
    replaced with a check box on the Status Panel.

10. A check box was added to the Map Dimensions dialog to ask if conduit
    lengths and subcatchment areas should be recomputed when the Auto-
    Length setting is on.

11. The Group Delete feature now offers the option of only deleting
    objects with a specific value for their Tag property.

12. Ponded Area was added to the list of node parameters that can be
    assigned a default value through the Project >> Defaults menu item.

13. The epaswmm5.ini file that contains a user's program preferences
    is now saved to the users Application Data folder, in a sub-folder
    named EPASWMM, rather than to the user's home folder.

14. Conduit slopes are no longer displayed as absolute values, so that
    negative slopes will show up on a thematic display on the study area
    map and will also be identified when a map query is made.

15. The bitmap image on the Run speed button was replaced.

16. The automatic identification of a connected path of links between
    two nodes specified on the Profile Plot dialog now uses the path
    with the smallest number of links.

17. The Study Area Map's Zoom Out feature no longer uses a zoom out
    to previous extent. Instead it zooms out relative to the current
    center of the map.

18. The Animator toolbar was made a permanent part of the Map Browser
    panel.

19. The operation of the date and time controls on the Map Browser panel
    were modified to work correctly with reporting times that are larger
    than 1 day.

20. The options on the Map Query dialog were extended to allow one to
    identify all nodes on the map that have been assigned a particular
    type of external inflow (Direct, Dry Weather, RDII, or Groundwater).


-----------------------
Build 5.0.009 (9/19/06)
-----------------------
Engine Updates:
1.  A climate file in the user-prepared format will no longer
    be confused with one using the Canadian format (see
    climate.c).
2.  The minimum runoff which can generate pollutant washoff was
    changed from 0.001 in/hr to 0.001 cfs (see subcatch.c).
3.  A new RDII event now begins when the duration of a
    continuous run of dry weather exceeds the base time of
    the longest unit hydrograph rather than arbitrarily being
    set at 12 hours (see rdii.c).
4.  Problems with dynamic flow routing through long force mains
    connected to Type 3 and Type 4 pumps have been corrected (see
    dynwave.c and link.c).

GUI Updates:
1.  A problem in displaying profile plots when all elevations
    are below zero has been corrected.

----------------------
Build 5.0.008 (7/5/06)
----------------------
Engine Updates:
1.  The conversion from the Horton infiltration drying
    time input parameter to an equivalent regeneration
    curve constant was corrected.
2.  Pipe invert elevations at outfalls are now measured
    relative to the outfall stage elevation rather than
    the outfall's invert elevation.
3.  Entrance/exit minor loss terms for dynamic wave flow
    routing are now adjusted by the ratio of the mid-point
    to entrance/exit areas to improve the energy balance.
4.  A possible error in computing flow depth from head when
    checking the normal flow limitation based on the Froude
    number for dynamic wave flow routing was corrected.
5.  A potential problem with converting the units of rainfall
    read from an external file was corrected.
6.  The equivalent length of orifices and weirs was changed
    from being a minimum of 200 ft to a maximum of 200 ft.
7.  Problems in displaying washoff mass balance results for
    pollutants expressed as Counts/Liter were fixed.
8.  The reporting of total system maximum runoff rate in the
    Status Report's Subcatchment Runoff Summary table has been
    corrected.
9.  The subcatchment pollutant washoff process was
    reprogrammed to provide more rigorous mass balance
    results for the case where runoff from one subcatchment
    is routed over another subcatchment or when there is
    direct deposition from rainfall.
10. Checks for non-negative conduit offsets and orifice/
    weir/outlet heights have been added.
11. A constant value and a scaling factor have been added to
    Direct External inflows. See the Inflows Editor - Direct
    Page topic in the Help file for more details.
12. A listing of total washoff loads for each pollutant for
    each subcatchment has been added to the Status Report.
13. A new summary table of Node Inflows and Flooding has been
    added to the Status Report.
14. A new summary table of Outfall flows and pollutant loads
    has been added to the Status Report.
15. The 5.0.006 Engine Update #12 has been revoked.

GUI Updates:
1.  The Inflows Editor was modified to accommodate the baseline
    and scaling parameters added to direct external inflows.
2.  The .INI file that saves a user's program preferences is now
    saved to the user's home directory rather than the SWMM
    installation directory.
3.  The Select All command was extended to apply to the Status
    Report display.
4.  A new text file viewer component was used for the Status
    Report to speed up the display of the report's contents.
5.  A formating error on the Horizontal Axis page of the Graph
    Options dialog form was corrected. This required making
    changes to the custom Chart Dialog component that is included
    with the GUI's source code.
6.  Some cosmetic changes were made to the look of Tabular
    reports.
7.  Type 3 pump curves (head v. flow) are now displayed with
    head on the vertical axis and flow on the horizontal axis
    when the View option is selected in the Curve Editor dialog.


-----------------------
Build 5.0.007 (3/10/06)
-----------------------
Engine Updates:
1.  An "Ignore Rainfall" analysis option was added that causes
    the program to only consider user-supplied external inflow
    time series and dry weather flows and ignore any rainfall
    inputs that would otherwise produce runoff.
2.  The hydraulic radius calculations for Rectangular-Closed,
    Rectangular-Triangular, and Rectangular-Round conduit shapes
    were modified to account for the increase in wetted perimeter
    that occurs under full flow due to the top surface.
3.  Refinements were made in several places in the code that need
    to distinguish between Full Flow and Maximum Flow conditions in
    closed conduits.
4.  The code now properly accounts for the case where the depth at
    which the maximum normal flow occurs through an irregular shaped
    cross section is less than the full depth.
5.  The final volume of any ponded water (caused by node flooding)
    is now included in the reported flow continuity error.
6.  Peak runoff flow was added to the Subcatchment Summary table
    in the Status Report.
7.  Non-conduit links are now included in the Link Flow Summary table
    of the Status Report.

GUI Updates:
1.  The Maximum Depth field in the Property Editor for a conduit with
    an irregular shape now shows the correct value for any set of
    transect elevation values.
2.  The "Save Profile to File" button is now enabled when the user
    manually adds a specified set of links to the Profile Plot dialog.
3.  Link Flow Depth and Link Velocity have been added as choices for
    calibration variables.
4.  The way that non-conduit links are displayed on profile plots was
    changed to avoid problems that occurred for weirs and orifices with
    crest heights above the node invert.
5.  A problem with the way that the Group Editing function was handling
    the case of irregular shaped cross sections was fixed.


-------------------------
Build 5.0.006a (10/19/05)
-------------------------
Engine Updates:
1.  The formula for snow melt rate during periods with rainfall
    was corrected to return its value in ft/sec rather than in/hr.
2.  A problem with generating routing interface files for systems
    with just nodes and no links was corrected.

GUI Updates:
1.  Numerical precision problems in computing centroids for
    subcatchments with very small distances between vertices
    were fixed.
2.  A problem with no calibration data being shown on a time
    series graph when some of the data were outside the range
    of the graph was fixed.
3.  A problem with calibration data represented as dates (not
    elapsed time) being shifted one reporting period over in
    time series graphs that used elapsed time was fixed.


----------------------
Build 5.0.006 (9/5/05)
----------------------
Engine Updates:
1.  A new summary table of maximum volumes and outflow rates
    for each storage unit has been added to the Status Report.
2.  The SWMM 4 BC parameter, which specifies a minimum groundwater
    table elevation for groundwater flow to occur, was added as an
    optional groundwater flow parameter. If not provided then as
    before, the invert of the receiving node defines the minimum
    groundwater table elevation for flow to begin.
3.  A new option was added to the Action clause of a control rule that
    allows the control setting for pumps, orifices, weirs, and outlets
    to be defined either by a curve (of setting versus node depth, for
    example) or by a time series. See the "Modulated Controls" topic
    in the Help file for more details.
4.  The problem with interior nodes being mistaken for outfall nodes
    (depending on the orientation of the connecting links) under water
    quality analyses was fixed.
5.  Geometry tables for standard size elliptical pipes were added
    (the standard size code number in the input file was being mistaken
    for an actual dimension).
6.  Storage curves of area versus depth are now linearly extrapolated
    when a depth exceeds the table limit (as in SWMM 4) rather than just
    keeping the area constant.
7.  Evaporation is no longer computed from a storage unit when it
    becomes dry.
8.  In water quality routing, concentrations in storage units are now
    adjusted to reflect any evaporation loss over each time step.
9.  It is now permissible to use the same hotstart file to both provide
    initial values for a run and to save the final values from a run.
10. The code was modified to be able to read evaporation values from a
    climate file during runs where no runoff computations are being
    made (previously any evaporation in such files was being ignored in
    data sets with no subcatchments).
11. A problem in the way that water quality was being routed through
    dummy conduits was fixed.
12. For pollutant treatment functions that define fractional removal in
    a storage unit node as a function of concentration, the concentration
    used is now the inflow concentration into the node (as is done for
    non-storage nodes), rather than the concentration in the storage unit.
13. The global first-order decay reaction assigned to specific pollutants
    is not applied to any storage unit that has a treatment function
    defined for the pollutant.
14. The total moisture available for infiltration at each time step of
    the runoff process now has evaporation subtracted from it before
    infiltration is computed.
15. Corrections were made to the way that the water volume in the upper
    soil zone is depeleted during dry periods under Green- Ampt
    infiltration.
16. A climate file is now positioned to begin reading at the start of the
    simulation period (rather than the start of the file) unless the user
    supplies a specific starting date to begin reading from the file.
17. A fatal error is now generated if the end of a climate file is reached
    when seeking climate data during a run (rather than just maintaining
    the same climate values for the remainder of the run).
18. The Node and Conduit flow statistics that appear in the Status Report
    are now only collected over the reporting period of the simulation,
    not the entire period (as would be the case when the user specifies
    a Report Start Date that comes after the Simulation Start Date).
19. The computation of the initial and final groundwater storage volumes
    used in the Groundwater Continuity table were corrected. This error
    only affected the continuity numbers and not the computed flows and
    water table levels.

GUI Updates:
1.  The File >> Reopen command will now list up to 10 most recently used
    files.
2.  Map coordinates are now displayed with 3 decimal places in the Status
    Bar.
3.  The File >> Preferences dialog now contains a "Prompt to Save Results"
    option. If left unchecked, simulation results will always be saved when
    a project file is closed and will be available for viewing the next
    time the project is opened.
4.  A "Report Elapsed Time by Default" option was also added to the File >>
    Preferences dialog. If checked, then time series graphs and tables will
    default to using elapsed time, rather than date/time, as the time
    variable. This choice can always be changed in the dialog box that
    appears when a graph or table is first created.
5.  Additional reporting variables were added to the list of parameters
    for which Calibration Files can be used (e.g., groundwater elevation,
    node flooding, etc.).
6.  Percent impervious was added to the list of subcatchment themes that
    can be viewed on the Study Area Map.
7.  An Exceedance Frequency plot panel was added to the output produced
    when a Statistics report is generated.
8.  Users can now add, delete, or re-position items in the list of
    links selected for a Profile Plot in the Profile Plot dialog using a
    new set of buttons added to the dialog. Links are added to the list
    by selecting the link either on the Map or from the Data Browser and
    then clicking the PLUS button on the dialog.
9.  Profile Plots can now be generated before any simulation results are
    available. They include an Update button that allows one to update
    the plot after editing changes have been made to any nodes or links
    contained in the plot.
10. The Edit >> Find menu command (and its associated speed button) was
    split into two sub-commands, one for finding objects on the map (as
    before) and another for finding text within a Status Report.
11. Problems with the wrong data fields sometimes being updated in the
    Group Editor were fixed.
12. The Interface File Combine utility was not working at all (the format
    of the interface file had changed since the original code was written).
    This has been fixed.
13. The centroids of subcatchment polygons on the map are now computed as
    true centroids rather than being merely the average of the vertex
    coordinates.
14. The Maximum Depth property is now preserved when a storage unit is
    converted to a junction (by right-clicking on it and selecting
    Convert To from the popup menu).
15. Map and Profile Plot animation is now turned off whenever the Animator
    Toolbar is closed.
16. More universal support was provided for entering numerical values in
    scientific notation throughout the GUI's various data entry fields.
17. Display problems with zoom-ins on the preview plots of Transects,
    Curves, and Time Series in their respective Editor dialogs were fixed.
18. In the GUI source code:
    a. The custom TOpenTextFileDialog component was renamed to
       TOpenTxtFileDialog so as not to conflict with a Delphi 2005
       component of the same name.
    b. The custom ChartDlg component was modified to add support for a
       chart axis that uses Date/Time labels.
    c. A new unit named Ucalib.pas was added that includes the code for
       reading data from Calibration Files that was previously contained
       in the Fgraph.pas unit.
    d. The Delphi DFM files for the project are now packaged as text
       files, not binaries, in the source code distribution.


------------------------
Build 5.0.005b (6/15/05)
------------------------
Engine Updates:
1. The end node offsets for conduits with the partly filled
   circular cross-section shape were not being increased to
   account for the depth of fill.
2. Flow through a weir was not necessarily zero when the
   water level on the side of the weir at higher head was
   zero.
3. The "crest height" for a Bottom Orifice is now
   interpreted as having the orifice lie in a horizontal
   plane the specified distance above its upstream node's
   invert. This allows riser outlet pipes in storage units
   to be simulated.

GUI Updates:
1. The keyword "WEIR" was not being recognized as a
   legitimate type of Flow Divider node by the GUI's
   input data file parser.
2. The Profile Plot could display hydraulic grade lines
   that dropped below the invert of a conduit.


------------------------
Build 5.0.005a (5/25/05)
------------------------
Engine Updates:
1. An erroneous error message that appears when a node has
   multiple outflow links with one of them being an Outlet
   link has been fixed.

GUI Updates:
1. Corrections were made for the way a Profile Plot is
   drawn when negative elevation values occur.


------------------------
Build 5.0.005 (5/20/05)
------------------------
Engine Updates:
1.  An error in computing ponded depths at flooded nodes under
    Dynamic Wave flow routing was corrected.
2.  The wrong lookup function was being used to find water
    elevations at Time Series type outfall nodes.
3.  An error in interpolating values stored on a routing interface
    file was corrected.
4.  The rainfall file reader was confusing the standard space-
    delimted format with other file formats.
5.  A reporting error for rainfall time series that had no ending
    zero value was corrected.
6.  A problem with neglecting to compute a snowmelt coefficient
    for pervious areas was fixed.
7.  The keyword for specifying that pollutant buildup be normalized
    to curb length was modified to accept either CURB or CURBLENGTH.
8.  The conversion factor the user supplies for external pollutant
    mass inflows must now convert time series values into mass
    concentration units per second (e.g., 5.25 will convert from lbs/
    day to mg/sec). Flow units are no longer part of the conversion.
9.  The ratio of maximum to design flow listed for each conduit in
    the status report was corrected to account for the number of
    barrels included in the conduit.
10. The minimum elevation change applied to a flat conduit was
    changed to 0.001 feet, as used in SWMM 4.
11. The maximum depth of an irregular cross-section transect is now
    based on the highest elevation of all stations, rather than just
    the higher of the first and last station, and vertical walls
    extending up to the higest elevation are added at the first and
    last station if need be.
12. The nominal width property of an irregular cross-section transect
    is now taken as the top width at full depth rather than the
    maximum width over all depths.
13. At outfalls where the user-specified water elevation is below
    that of a free outfall, the free outfall elevation is now used.
14. A new property, the maximum allowable flow, was added to the
    Conduit object. The default value is 0.0, which indicates that
    no maxmimum flow is prescribed.
15. Depths at outfall nodes under Steady and Kinematic Wave flow
    routing are now reported as the depth in the connecting
    conduit.
16. The calculation of the head over a non-surcharged, submerged weir
    was corrected to be based on the height of water above the weir
    crest, rather than the difference in heads on either side of the
    weir.
17. The equation used to reduce the length of a weir with side
    contractions was modified to fix a bug in SWMM 4.
18. A new water quality routing algorithm was written that produces
    more robust results under Dynamic Wave flow routing.
19. The Compatibility Mode option under Dynamic Wave flow routing was
    removed. Now there is just a single method used which has been
    designed to be compatible with SWMM 4 yet produce more stable
    results.
20. A new dynamic wave routing option was added that determines which
    criterion decides when conduit flow is limited to normal flow (it
    represents the KSUPER parameter used in SWMM 4).
21. A new flow routing option was added that allows routing calculations
    to be skipped during periods of steady flow which can greatly reduce
    the time required for continuous simulations.

GUI Updates:
1.  An error in reading the flapgate parameter for Weirs in an input
    file was corrected.
2.  Having the Property Editor positioned outside the viewable screen
    area when the user changed the video settings to a lower resolution
    was corrected.
3.  The Convert To option to change nodes from one type of object to
    another was fixed.
4.  The Routing Time Step option is now entered as fractional seconds
    on the Analysis Options form. The older format of hrs:min:sec will
    still be imported correctly from previous SWMM5 input files.
5.  The ability to include a startup input file on the command line
    that launches the GUI was added (add /f filename to the command
    line where filename is the fully qualified name of the input file
    to start with).
6.  Support for output results files greater than 2 gigabytes was added.
7.  The display of the hydraulic grade line in Profile Plots, and its
    intersection with the flow volume in conduits was improved.
8.  The summary results tables contained in the Status Report were
    modified to display more useful information.
9.  The graph options selection dialogs were made to behave more
    consistently.
10. Support was added for copying and printing the graphical views of
    curves, time series, and transects from within their respective
    editors.
11. The SWMM 4 flow calibration data file (Extran1.dat) distributed with
    the example data set Example2.inp was modified to contain the flows
    actually produced by SWMM version 4.4h, rather than the original
    numbers printed in the 1988 Extran manual.

In addition, the SWMM 5.0 Users Manual and Help file were updated to
reflect these changes and new additions.

------------------------
Build 5.0.004 (11/24/04)
------------------------
Engine Updates:
1. Fixes were made to the routines that identify and read data from the
   NCDC-formatted external rain files.
2. The sign of reported velocity in links with adverse slope was
   corrected.
3. Reading of results from previously saved Runoff Interface files
   was corrected.
4. The calculation of a regeneration rate constant from a soil drying
   time value for Curve Number infiltration was corrected, and the
   method was modified to use a constant infiltration capacity during
   each rain event, rather than a continuously declining capacity.
5. A correction was made to the dynamic wave routing routine for
   SWMM4 and SWMM3 compatibility modes that improves the match with
   Extran results from these earlier versions of SWMM.
6. The check for zero-sloped conduits was modified to include any
   conduit with elevation difference below 0.01 feet.
7. The computation of the ponded depth at flooded nodes under dynamic
   wave flow routing was corrected.
8. A check was added to make sure that the reporting time step is
   not longer than the run duration.
9. Surcharged and high Froude number conduits were previously excluded
   from consideration when computing a variable time step for dynamic
   wave routing; they are now included.
10. The code numbers for the concentration units used for each pollutant
    was added to the binary output file produced from a simulation.

GUI Updates:
1. Negative values can now be entered for temperature values that
   appear on several input forms.
2. The input file reader now checks to make sure that the various time-
   of-day option values are valid.
3. A problem with copying the correct dates for a Tabular Report that
   is being copied to the clipboard or to a file was corrected.
4. The Graph Options dialog form was modified to display the Solid
   option for Style whenever a Size greater than 1 is selected. (Due
   to a limitation of the Graphics library used in EPA SWMM, only
   solid lines can be drawn at a thickness greater than 1.)


------------------------
Build 5.0.003 (11/10/04)
------------------------
Engine Updates:
1. Modifications were made to full depth entries of width tables for
   closed rounded cross-section shapes to improve the numerical
   stability for dynamic wave flow routing.
2. Error 405 was added to detect if the size of the binary results
   file would exceed the 2.1 Gbyte system limit.
3. A units problem for RDII inflows under metric flow units was
   corrected.
4. A problem reading the TEMPDIR option when it contained spaces was
   corrected.
5. Support for Canadian DLY02 and DLY04 temperature files was added.
6. Rule-based control of crest height for weirs was corrected
   (previously the control setting adjusted flow rather than the
   relative distance between weir crest and crown).

GUI Updates:
1. A problem with the Group Editing feature for conduits was corrected
   (the editor would update the wrong conduit parameter).
2. Execution time for long term simulations on smaller projects was
   speeded up considerably by only refreshing the progress meter every
   day rather than every minute.
3. The time to draw time series graphs and perform statistical analyses
   on large data sets was considerably shortened.

-----------------------
Build 5.0.002 (11/1/04)
-----------------------
Engine Updates
1. Modifications made to the Picard method used for dynamic wave
   flow routing routine.

------------------------
Build 5.0.001 (10/29/04)
------------------------
First official release of SWMM 5.
